Title: Making Startups Powerful
Video ID: pg-making-startups-powerful
Channel: Paul Graham (web)
Published: 2026-09
Source: https://www.paulgraham.com/powerful.html

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

September 2026

One of the most useful heuristics I have when doing office hours
with startups is to ask: what would make this company more powerful?
Asking how the company could make more money is a good heuristic
too, but it tends to yield incremental improvements. Whereas thinking
about how to make it more powerful will sometimes make it orders
of magnitude more valuable.

There are a lot of different variants of this question, depending
on the type of company. Is there a way to transform the company
from a mere component supplier into the one that owns the relationship
with the customer? Or the related question: is there a way to make
the money flow through it? It's always good when money flows through
you.
[ 1 ] 

Is there a way to create something akin to an app store, where other
companies can build upon your product? Then all their efforts to
create valuable things make you more valuable too. Ideally this is
combined with owning the customer relationship and making the money
flow through you.
[ 2 ] 

Network effects make companies more powerful, and I almost always
think about how to introduce them. I treat it as a kind of challenge
to see if there's a way to get network effects even in things you
wouldn't expect to have them.
[ 3 ] 
It's surprising how often it
can be done. And when it can, this sometimes transforms the idea
completely; what had been a service is now a marketplace. The deluxe
version is full app store, but if there's no more direct way to do
it, you can often induce network effects by letting your users share
something. For example, if you opt in, we'll tell you how you're
doing compared to other users. The obvious AI variant is to let
your users opt in to training your model on their interactions with
it. Many will resist that, but if some don't, the model they get
to use will outperform the vanilla one used by the others.

Often you can induce network effects by generalizing the idea, which
makes the startup doubly more powerful. For example, if I were
talking to a startup building a way for agents to pay for things,
the first question I'd ask is whether the agents could also pay one
another. If they can do that, you become a marketplace. And being
a marketplace is so valuable that if it wasn't immediately obvious
what agents could pay one another for, it would be worth spending
a lot of time trying to think of something. If you could, it might
be worth tilting the whole company toward that, and if necessary
even becoming a market maker to get it rolling.

These hypothetical transformations of the original idea don't always yield
anything promising. Far from it. But they're always worth considering;
if nothing else, trying to transform an idea helps you
understand it better.

There are certain kinds of thinking where ideas start to seem almost
physical. Most programmers have probably experienced it. Manipulating
startup ideas feels this way too. One transformation that feels
especially physical is the strategy of going full stack: instead
of selling your technology to companies doing x, you use the
technology yourself to do x in competition with them. You can almost
see the idea stretch as it engulfs what had been the customer. And
now that you own the outside surface, the shape of that probably
changes too.

There's a variant of going full stack where you eat your way gradually
through the customer by doing all their hardest work for them. In
the limit case, you're doing all the brainwork and they're just
running errands for you. At which point, as in the full stack case,
the real customer is their customer; the initial customer is now
just a kind of hand puppet.

Another thing I'm always looking for is tails that could wag the
dog. The history of startups is full of these. Paypal started out
doing security for hand-held devices. They created Paypal as a demo
of their security software. But then eBay sellers started using it
to take payments, and after a couple months the founders acknowledged
that this was the business they were now in, even though they hadn't
meant to be. So whenever founders build something peripheral to the
main product I always ask: could this be the real product?

It's exciting when you notice users "misusing" your product
to do something you hadn't intended. This means there's something
they want so desperately that they'll not only use any solution you
offer, but even use things that aren't meant to be solutions. When
you see something like that, don't be annoyed that your users are
using your product wrong; listen for the message they're sending,
because it could be valuable.

The reason Paypal grew so fast was that it helped users make money.
Few things make you more powerful than that. When you help users
make money, they're (a) quick to adopt your product and (b) will
pay a lot for it. So your revenues grow doubly fast. Most of the
most successful companies we've funded help their users to make
money, as does YC itself.

Playing the long game makes you more powerful, because most other
people you encounter won't be. Most startups competing with you
will be run by opportunists hoping to be acquired. Most big companies
you deal with will be run by executives who don't expect to be there
for more than a few years and are only thinking about this quarter's
numbers. So tradeoffs that only pay off in 10 years will usually
be underpriced. The classic one is to offer great terms in order
to acquire users. I generally advise startups to sell as cheaply
as they need to at first; get all the users, then worry about your
margins. But there are usually also deeper, structural ways to play
the long game.
[ 4 ] 

Being generous makes you more powerful. As Tim O'Reilly said, you
should create more value than you capture. Many hard-headed business
types would write this off as idealistic hippy stuff, but in fact
this is the route to becoming really rich. Squeezing every last
penny out of customers is a distraction. It gets you 2x returns at
most. Whereas discovering some new thing you could make for them
could easily get you 10x or 100x returns. They're two different
ways of looking at the world, and the O'Reilly way makes more, for
those who can do it.
[ 5 ] 

The classic example of generosity leading to power is when companies
open source their software. They literally give away the product,
but by giving it away they both make it a standard and make users
trust it more. That makes it spread, and in the end they end up
with a small piece of a much, much bigger pie.

If you don't want to go full open source, you can get some of the
benefits by making your product extensible. One end of that continuum
is the app store, but if you don't restrict or charge for extensions
you may ultimately end up with a bigger ecosystem.
[ 6 ] 

The ultimate in extensibility is to let your product be called via
an API. Many companies shrink from that because they dislike the
loss of control that comes with it. They want their software to be
used only in the way they intended. There may be some specialized
domains where you want to be rigid about this, but I suspect it's
usually a mistake. Especially now that agents are replacing human
users. Who knows what they'll want to do? So err on the side of
having APIs. Especially when you're a larval startup and have nothing
to lose.

Strangely enough, selling to earlier stage companies makes you more
powerful. Founders are often surprised by this, because the earlier
you sell to startups, the less money they have. But if you get them
as customers at the very beginning and you charge based on usage,
your revenues will grow at startup rates.

This is why Stripe makes a point of signing up companies at the
first possible moment. With payments infrastructure, if it ain't
broke, you don't fix it, and since Stripe ain't broke, companies
that install it never churn. And selling to early stage startups
is so straightforward. The founders are sophisticated and decide
quickly. If you have the best product, you win. Whereas if you're
making something you can't sell to companies till they have 500
people, you're in a much weaker position. Now you're doing enterprise
sales, which takes forever and is notoriously not a domain where
the best product wins.

When I ask a startup how big a customer has to be before they'll
buy their product, I always hope the number will be low. And if
it's not, I always ask if there's some way to tweak the product so
they can sell it earlier. The ideal is something they can
Collison-install right now for their batchmates.
[ 7 ] 

More generally, having customers who decide fast makes you powerful.
Not just because of the speed, but because customers who decide
fast tend to decide based on how good you are. Startups usually
make the best stuff (if you were both small and mediocre, how could
you even survive?) and when customers decide fast, making the best
stuff leads straight to making the most money. Whereas selling to
customers like hospitals and school districts is like walking through
mud. Whenever I meet a startup selling to customers like that, I
ask if there's some way they could at least start by selling to a
subset of the market that decides faster.
[ 8 ] 

There's a strategy similar to getting the customers early, which
is to get the data early. Rippling used this technique brilliantly.
Their goal was always to be both the operating system for applications
dealing with employee data and most of the applications running on
it. They didn't know exactly what this would look like; it would
have to evolve; so they started by writing onboarding software,
because that's where the life of employee data begins. And since
there was more at stake for them than just the onboarding software
market, their onboarding software was way better than it needed to
be, and spread rapidly.

Upstream is almost always good, whether it's with money or user
relationship or customer stage or data.

Since startups make the best stuff, they're strongest on level
playing fields. They're weakest in markets dominated by companies
you'd describe as mafia. Record labels are mafia. PBMs are mafia.
In these worlds you don't win by having the best product. Indeed
you may only even exist for as long as the mafia chooses to allow
you to. Which is not to say they can't be defeated. They probably
can be, but you'd have to do it by coming in from the side — by
somehow making them irrelevant, rather than by frontal attack. Then
you wouldn't depend on beating them to succeed; it would be an
ancillary benefit of winning in another dimension.
[ 9 ] 

Often what you're doing when you explore ways to make a company
more powerful is finding ways not to be held back by other companies.
If you're a component supplier and have to live in a (sometimes
literal) box created by another company, you can escape that if you
can find a way to own the customer relationship. If you're selling
to companies that are big and bureaucratic, you can escape that by
selling to them when they're smaller and decide faster, or by using
your technology yourselves to compete with them. This pattern is
so common that you can use it as a heuristic for generating ways
to make an idea bigger. In what ways is the current idea being held
back by other companies?

Often as not, though, startups are being held back by themselves.
A surprising percentage of the advice I give to startups has the
word "just" in it. You don't need to x. Just y. One way startups'
ideas get twisted into knots is by evolving from something else;
there's now a part they don't need, and they don't realize it yet.
But with very early stage startups especially, the reason the idea
is complicated is often fear. The company is unconsciously cowering
by doing something less ambitious than they could. Just y is
often, in effect, just stand up straight . And when they do they're
much taller.

But all these strategies for making startups more powerful have one
thing in common — or more precisely, have to obey one constraint.
They all have to make things better for the customer. You can't add
network effects or make the money flow through you or go full stack
just because you'd like to. You can only do these things when the
result is better for the customer. Otherwise you won't have any
uptake.

These are strategies for making startups powerful in the long term,
but startups that execute them don't usually have any power at the
point when they do. And indeed this initial weakness of startups
is why, on the whole, they're good for the world. Newly founded
startups are too weak to force anything on anyone. The only way
they can become powerful is to make customers' lives better. In
fact this constraint is so rigid that you can run it backwards to
generate ideas. What would the perfect world look like, from the
customer's point of view? If there's a component of that world that
the startup could transform itself into, it probably should.

Notes 

[ 1 ]
You can also make tokens flow through you, and this usually
means that money flows through you too, since the tokens have to be paid
for. In theory this puts you in a powerful position. You own the
customer relationship, and the model companies are in effect component
suppliers. The question is how easy it would be for them to engulf
you, or even your customers.

[ 2 ]
If you can't create an app store, can you at least define the
standard for how different companies' products interact? In a new
field there's often no standard yet. But don't worry that you're
too small to propose one. If you're one of the first in the field,
you presumably have as good ideas as anyone about what such a
standard should look like. And everyone is so hungry for standards
that the first to be proposed tends to win, no matter who proposed
it.

[ 3 ]
YC itself is an instance of network effects in something you
wouldn't expect to have them. We didn't intend it to be, but we
realized very quickly that that was what we'd stumbled upon.

[ 4 ]
There are even times when it's worthwhile to sell at a loss.
But be careful when you do this, because if you give away too much,
you lose the signal that customers send by paying you. If your 
product is a $10 bill that you sell for $5, your growth rate isn't
telling you anything useful.

[ 5 ]
The O'Reilly way of looking at the world is more common among
founders. When companies switch from making new products to squeezing
more profit out of existing ones, it's often because control has
passed from the founders to hired managers.

Partly this is because only founders tend to have the inclination
or the ability to create new things. But it's also because founders
have experienced weakness. Hired CEOs take the power of the companies
they run for granted, whereas founders remember the days when the
company was so weak that it had to delight users to survive.

[ 6 ]
Perhaps flexibility in this department will be the key to
finally displacing Apple. One thing you can be sure of is that
they'll be restrictive about hardware and software that integrates
with theirs.

[ 7 ]
If you switch from asking "What size customers should we
target?" to "At what point in their life should we acquire customers?"
it becomes clear that targeting bigger companies is just targeting
a given company later. As long as you're confident that customers
won't churn, why not lock them in early? Why do slow, brittle
enterprise sales when you could just sell to early stage startups
and then grow with them? This kind of situation is exactly why YC
emphasizes growth rate rather than absolute numbers. If your
growth rate is good enough, the absolute numbers will take care of
themselves. And the way to get the fastest growth rate is to sell
to the customers who grow the fastest and decide the fastest.

This way of looking at the world comes naturally when you're playing
the long game. If you think in quarters, it seems like potential
customers have fixed sizes. If you think in decades, you can see
they have trajectories.

[ 8 ]
In a normal industry, customers who are slow to adopt new
technology represent an opportunity for startups. The slower they
are, the more likely you can win by going full stack. What makes
selling to hospitals and school districts so grim is that you
generally can't — though there are some opportunities to go around
schools and go directly to serving students.

[ 9 ]
Apparently one thing record labels and PBMs have in common
is that they're full of lawyers. So this is presumably a way to
recognize such companies.

Thanks to Sam Altman, Patrick Collison, 
Aaron Epstein, Ankit Gupta, Diana Hu, Pete Koomen,
Jessica Livingston, and Harj Taggar for reading drafts of this, and
to Diana for reminding me about token flow.