Title: US DoD needs great software | Palantir eng & special forces vet founded Adyton and Mustr
Video ID: DXIrFlmQjvo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXIrFlmQjvo
Channel: Garry Tan
Published: 2021-10-07T14:30:05Z
Duration: PT28M3S
Views: 11873
Likes: 339
Tags: Andreessen horowitz, Garry Tan, Garry Tan initialized, Garry Tan initialized capital, Garry Tan vc, Silicon Valley vc, a16z, adyton, adyton startup, air force, best Silicon Valley vcs, future of military tech, initialized capital, military chat, military tech
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 864

Description:
Visit Adyton (https://www.adyton.io/) to learn more about the transformative Military and Enterprise tech solutions Adyton is deploying for the US DoD and teams across the nation. 

Their first product is Mustr, which provides troops with simple and secure accountability, identity, messaging, and workflow https://www.getmustr.app/ 
  
James Boyd is an early Palantir engineer who served as a Communications Sergeant in the 1st Special forces of the U.S. Army. After seeing the troubled solutions th

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Today, we can take a photo of our lunch
and post it on Instagram easier than
almost anything. It's effortless and
because the software, especially that
type of consumer software, is just
top-notch. But, isn't it weird that we
go to work and we don't get that level
of quality? We're still emailing
spreadsheets around or getting on the
phone. Now, let's take it further to the
battlefield. The world's greatest
fighting forces, the United States
Department of Defense, they don't have
that level of quality of software. And
not only does it cost them billions in
lost productivity, but when it actually
comes to our troops, it can and does
cost lives. That's why today we're
talking with the co-founder of Adyton,
James Boyd. After multiple tours of
duty, he spent years working early at
Palantir on the forward deployed teams
that landed and expanded the seven and
eight-figure enterprise contracts that
helped build Palantir. And he's doing it
again with his new startup that is
delivering apps like this one.
Muster is the online identity and
communication platform that's spreading
fast across the US military. Adyton is
proving that you can build highly
profitable, high-growth businesses in
defense tech by building products that
matter, that create value with impact,
and make the world safer and more
stable. Defense tech is on the rise and
James and his team are on the forefront.
Let's get started.
I guess to start off, I'd love to ask
about how you started working on this
kind of software. Like, how did you come
to realize this was what was really
needed by the armed forces? Well,
thanks, Gary. I appreciate you having me
and and thank you also for for your
service and kind of creating an
ecosystem around defense technology, as
well.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that at the end of
the day, this is a very personal thing
that we're actually doing here.
Uh I guess it was
2018,
October time frame, 2018, and my brother
had just gotten back from Afghanistan,
where he'd been out in eastern
Afghanistan in the valleys out there
blocking ISIS. So, their whole unit is
focused on preventing the resupply of
ISIS elements through Pakistan. And he's
telling me about the experience he had
out there, where he was in firefights.
And he's using uh he's working with his
whole team in these firefights and
they're working to to try and block
them, to to run interference on the ISIS
elements, and he needs some help. And
he's got this army-issued device,
and they've ripped out the Wi-Fi chips,
they've ripped out the LTE chips. So,
you have this army-issued Android
device, and he's trying to use that to
coordinate with the rest of his team and
to call for air support. And these are
really really important
at that moment.
Absolutely. Yeah, he's in a firefight.
And he's trying to call for for air
support, which is really, really
essential in these kinds of situations.
And because the army's removed these
chips, and you have to, because frankly,
mobile is a really difficult thing in
this kind of environment. You have all
the security challenges, you have
connectivity challenges, you have the
whole compliance challenge, as well. He
realizes that he can actually send
WhatsApp messages to his Afghan partner
force. So, he's like sending text
messages in a firefight saying, "Hey,
you guys got to go to the left, you got
to go to the right." And he's finding
that, hey, when it comes time to
actually talk to the US personnel, he
can't actually do that. And I'm
listening to this.
I'm hearing how they have the comms set
up.
And I'm realizing that, you know, you
listen as a brother and like this is
something that's very, very painful to
hear, cuz you don't want to think of
your loved ones in harm's way.
And I'm listening as somebody who used
to wear the uniform. I was a special
forces soldier. And you think about your
friends that are also in the same kind
of situation. And then you also hear
this as an engineer, and you're like,
wait a minute, why are we trying to push
grid coordinates over a 16 kHz voice
channel? Like, this is not the right
solution for the problem. And you
realize, hey, somebody actually has to
do something about it. And you know, I
think you look in the mirror, and Gary,
you've done a video where you talk about
creating value in the world. What's the
unique value that you're actually able
to create? And I kind of look in the
mirror and say, hey, look,
you're a special forces comms soldier.
You were trained to be an expert in
understanding austere military
communications.
I've had the opportunity to work at
Palantir, where I work with first-class
software engineers. We build amazing
products. And we've also created huge
enterprise businesses working closely in
partnership with special operations
command to deliver amazing capabilities
out there.
And you realize, hey, there's not too
many other people in the world that can
go and do this stuff. And so, you feel a
sense of responsibility
to go and do this. I guess I really feel
that because there's just this
fundamental need, you know, especially
for an armed forces that in a lot of
ways gets the best tech, right? But for
software, for the software piece to fall
down so thoroughly,
um and for something that, you know, you
and I sort of just take for granted, you
know, in our civilian work, it's a
matter of just opening up Slack and
being able to talk to people, right? But
for to to realize, oh, that's not
actually a thing that is accessible to,
you know, hundreds of thousands of
people, uh you know, in their normal
work,
because of, you know, probably really
good reasons, too, right? I mean,
security and compliance are all of these
things that are really quite important.
But, you were sort of very uniquely
blessed by
having built the systems that got all
the way through those sort of, you know,
these are all
you know, checkpoints that the DoD has
had that you've helped shepherd, you
know, at Palantir. So, to look at that
and say, I can build the software, I can
also get it sold and, you know, deployed
in in the hands of the troops and people
who need it, uh that's a really big
responsibility. Yeah, it's something
that we feel, you know, this is it
extends beyond like, yeah, we're we're
building products that make a real
impact on end users. We have units that
use our software and say, hey, like,
this is your software has kept service
members alive because of what you built.
But, there's this also other
responsibility, which is actually
setting an example for others. You know,
there's this wealth of innovation that
came from the first generation of the
defense industrial base. You think about
everything that happened in the '70s.
You had the interplay between the
universities with industry, with venture
capital, and you created all the
technology that powers the internet,
Siri, AI,
uh and went on to to create the kind of
amazing hardware that we see in the DoD
with stealth fighters and things like
that.
But, it's time actually to to really
catalyze the next generation of an
ecosystem, where we can take this
amazing technology that Silicon Valley
builds, where we have these phenomenal
engineers, phenomenal designers, you
have deeply motivated people and like
liquid pools of capital, which is
seeking an opportunity. And we can
actually say, hey, let's combine these
forces again, and let's actually bring
around the software revolution in the
DoD. So, I think that's when we first,
you know, sort of reconnected. Uh you
know, obviously, both of us were old
friends from Stanford and uh sort of you
went on to
a career in special forces and Palantir,
and then I happened to be at Palantir
very early and then had left to go start
companies. It was just really cool to
hear from you in 2019, and that was sort
of the first time
I was frankly just really surprised that
there weren't more real options. You
know, the same reason why Palantir
exists and sells to the very important
parts of the government, even today, is
because you know, large portions of the
government and like some of the biggest
companies in the world, they just don't
have access to good software, period.
Certainly. I remember when JJ and I
first came up to meet you, I think it
was in in January of 2019. We didn't
know anything about venture capital at
the time, and you were educating us
about venture capital, and we also were,
I think, teaching you about the way
things actually shake out in the
Department of Defense, where we take
take for granted that I have Slack and I
can video chat and I have email and I
have calendar and it's all on my phone
and it's ubiquitous and and that's just
not the way the world works in the DoD.
The DoD is still powered by notebooks,
pen and paper, and clipboards. And
really, there's this huge opportunity to
to create this transformation and
actually make the shift to mobile and
shift to digital, generate all this data
that creates a lot of visibility and
insight for the enterprise and uh the
kind of information that leaders need to
make decisions, but also creates this
deeply uh satisfying, high-quality
software experience for end users. And I
think that this presents an opportunity
to really show the world that
uh you can do startups in the defense
sector, that you can take a bottoms-up
approach to this and change the way some
of the procurement happens, as well.
So, that that that sort of led you to
build um the first version of the
product, which is called Muster. Talk
Talk to me about that. I mean, it sounds
like there was already sort of a very
impressive um case study that has come
out of
uh real live, active army brigade
using it. Yeah, uh we spent probably a
year building the underlying technology.
And like, this is not very sexy, I
think, for for most folks to think about
security and compliance and
connectivity. Like, these are not sexy
things. Identity, messaging, like sort
of the things that you would expect um
for a consumer app that allows people to
communicate and collaborate. Oh,
totally. If you wanted to just go build
an application for consumers to to send
cat pictures, you're going to go over to
Google Firebase and like, life's going
to be really, really easy. But, when you
start layering on the DoD compliance
regulations, it becomes much, much
harder. And you start thinking about
nation-state actors trying to penetrate
software, it's a it's a significant
challenge for the developer.
And so, we built out Muster as the first
product launched on top of this
technology stack, and we focused on a
core workflow for the Department of
Defense, and that's personnel
accountability. And this is not
something that we think about in the
private sector. You know, you sign into
Slack and you know that your people are
okay. But, in In DoD, you have this
highly distributed workforce.
And we've got dozens of using units
using it right now. And this very, very
prominent example was an Army Brigade
was using it over the holiday period.
And if folks remember Christmas Day
2020,
there was a bombing that occurred in
Nashville.
So, when I talk about a brigade, I mean
you have 3,000 personnel that are
sprinkled around the country.
And because it's over the holiday
period, you have about five personnel
that are responsible for the
safekeeping, the administration, the
care, the management of these
distributed personnel.
And so, using Muster, they were able to
get what they referred to as
accountability, which means that they
know that every single person is okay in
a period of 30 minutes. And this is not
a real number. When we tell people about
this, military leaders say, "Hey, 30
minutes, that's not possible. It cannot
be done." Because the way that they do
it today, the status quo, is it's lining
people up and counting them.
Or if people are remote, it's you have
the the colonel calls the major, the
major calls the captains, the captains
call the sergeants, the sergeants call
the corporals, and you have a giant
phone tree. You have text message chains
that extremely long. And actually
pulling the data back in real time,
getting visibility in real time, and
understanding this is supremely
difficult. And so, what we've done is we
digitized this fundamental military
process.
And the fundamental military orders
giving process, where when somebody
issues an instruction, they know that
that instruction's been received and
it's being actioned. So, what you see
with Muster is that any organization
that has a large span of control, we've
turned it into three clicks to actually
get personnel accountability across this
distributed workforce. In a
fundamentally structured interaction
where you can see there's actual
progress being made across thousands of
personnel.
And it allows you to aggregate and
automatically drill down to see the
people that actually need help. So, when
this guy Jeff has a fever, you can
immediately reach out to Jeff and go
point to point. And for any kind of
large organization where you have 3,000
personnel, you don't care about the
2,997
that are fine. You care about figuring
out who the three people that are in
distress and actually need help with
this right now. And this is an everyday
occurrence in the DoD. Personnel
accountability happens every single day
across the entire Department of Defense.
And it's the kind of thing we also see
in other kinds of sectors as well with
things like oil field services,
construction, mining. Anywhere where
there's some risk and you want to make
sure that your people are okay.
And by putting it in the mobile device,
it means that that leader has access to
this information anywhere they are.
And this is something that's really,
really important because we've seen that
the the managers and the leaders that
are operating on flight lines, that are
operating under the decks of ships, that
are operating wherever they are, they
actually need access to their
organization. They need access to the
information. And they want this trust
that they can reach out and they can
touch their people. Yeah, it's kind of
wild to think, but you know, basically
this type of workforce software doesn't
exist yet or it happens in like much
more crude ways and it's not in
basically inventory level person's
phone. In the short term,
you think of it as, you know, resource
management and things like that, but
it's really interesting how this could
be sort of
that identity layer. Like it's almost
like the way Slack is for a lot of
organizations. You know, you're just
seeing applications being built on top
of it, like internal workflows being
built on top of Slack. Uh the same thing
will happen with what you have um with
Muster. You know, it's sort of the
uh
nervous system and then once you sort of
connect everything up, then that's just
the beginning of sort of a super app.
It's the fabric of interoperability for
these organizations. And so, we've seen,
I think, from that sort of baseline
productivity perspective, where you're
providing that communications glue that
means that you can communicate and
interact in a structured way with your
personnel regardless of where they are,
whether they're at home, they're at
work, whether they're inside of a
building, outside of a building. And
using native networks, using AT&T and
Verizon or
uh networks in the Middle East, wherever
people are deployed using this. And
using the devices that they already have
on them, it's provide this backbone. And
what organizations are seeing is that,
"Hey, now that I can do this, now I want
to extend this." And so, this is
something we've seen play out where the
product is going viral across a lot of
these organizations. So, we have
generals referring it to other generals,
we have colonels referring it to
colonels, and we have enlisted personnel
when they rotate to a new unit, they
say, "Hey, I got to take Muster with
me." Because they say, "Hey, every
single thing happened in Muster
in my previous unit. So, now we need to
do the same thing here."
And and they're also seeing, "Hey, this
can now be adapted." To your point
around like the identity, is that you're
providing this sort of this fundamental
entity data and this interaction point
for people so that if you can say, "I
can line up my people and I can count my
people and interact in a digital way in
a first-class way,
now I can say, 'Hey, what about all my
equipment?'" You know, when the DoD says
like, "I need to make sure I have all of
my equipment and who's assigned to to
what rifle or who's assigned to what
radio and things like that, you need to
have the people first." And that's where
we see Muster as this kind of backbone,
not just from a product perspective with
the the workflow, but also the data
perspective. Where now you can start to
say, "Hey, like let's keep track of all
of our equipment or all of our vehicles
and our maintenance and link it all to
it." And that's something we've seen uh
is pushed for expansion. So, there's
some rapid innovation organizations in
the Department of Defense. There's
AFWERX with the the Air Force, there's
ARCWERX with the National Guard. And and
they're pushing very, very heavily to
expand Muster to then say, "Hey, look,
if we have all of our people, let's
start scheduling our people." And it
creates a couple things we've seen in
organizations. One is a culture of
engagement,
where leadership is telling us, "Hey, we
hadn't thought about how technology
could impact the way we lead our
people." The way they do things they
call setting a command climate, which we
refer to in the startup world as
culture.
And thinking about how that affects the
interactions with their personnel, where
it actually manifests a real open door
policy.
For better or worse, yet the junior
enlisted are actually talking to the
senior leaders of a unit and telling
them what's going on.
It also means that you have this kind of
new efficiency, where we've seen units
that will immediately get some
information through Muster and issue an
order 10 minutes later.
And it's flattening a lot of the
communications that happens with that.
So, it means that they're able to get a
lot more stuff done, get more training
done, and more maintenance done. And
then also means that their soldiers and
their sailors and their Marines get more
time with their families as well, which
is something that's really important.
And then the third thing that that we're
really excited about is that it changes
the expectation.
Where a lot of times, I remember wearing
a uniform, you kind of expect things to
be
not quite as nice as you would like.
The software experience is not quite as
nice as you like. The food sometimes is
not quite as nice as you would like, and
the lodging is not quite as nice as you
would like. But now they're saying,
"Hey, look,
I can download Muster through the App
Store.
I can get my organization set up.
And it works well. And it improves the
quality of our operations. And you know
what? I should actually have nice
things." And that I think is a critical
component to be able to actually change
the expectation
for this innovation ecosystem that
delivers new capabilities to the DoD.
Yeah, that's the really interesting
thing about, I mean, frankly, selling
any kind of software to any part of the
government is it doesn't cost more. In
fact, really good software tends to cost
less and it also saves people so much
money. And, you know, it's sort of like
a a 10x sort of thing. And that's why
Palantir existed. And um the really
interesting new lesson I think you're
learning now is that, you know, Palantir
was actually maybe a harder thing to
sell because
it was actually quite a bit more
expensive in a lot of ways. And it
didn't have like the same kind of
motion. Whereas this is a lot more like
bottom-up. Like, you know, you don't
need the full buy-in all the way at the
top. You're going to get the full buy-in
all the way at the top because
the software will have already done what
it did for that um you know, Army
Brigade for instance. Like it will have
already done that for uh you know, the
bottom-up. And then it makes it really
easy to sell top-down. And I think
that's like a a new thing that's really
exciting about what you're doing. It's
it's something that we've adapted from
the Palantir playbook. And I think they
deserve a lot of credit because they
they created this shift in the
organization, where the organization
said, "Hey, it's actually important we
have good capabilities." And that
software is a thing that should be
treated slightly differently.
But certainly we've adapted that
playbook and said, "Hey, all right,
based off of those lessons learned, how
would we actually do this?"
Recognizing that as we focus on creating
value, where we're creating value for
the end user, we're creating value for
for the business, for for our investors,
it's what's the best way of actually
going forth and doing that. And and
certainly by making a product that's
really, really easy for end users to
understand, making it easy for them to
buy.
And then there's certainly some things
that we've done as well to make it easy
for the enterprise to buy, too.
And I I would be candid in saying that
the DoD is still it is not an easy
customer
uh to work with. Um you know, I think we
all know that building software is not
an easy thing.
And uh building startups is not an easy
thing.
I think when you look at the DoD, like
just even talking to users is a
challenge. I And I I would say like we
were working with some some Air Force
users and if you think about being able
to uncover a problem and actually access
the user, you have to figure out a
person that has a problem, get in touch
with them somehow, get invited to go to
a base, fly to that location, stand
outside the gate for an hour, hope that
they put the paperwork in to get you on
base, get on base, and it's kind of like
TSA to the power of 10.
And then go find your way to a numbered
building when there are no maps because
it's uh the military and they do that
for security.
And then you got to get a badge to get
into the building, and then you got to
go find your way to the basement and
hope that somebody lets you through the
locked door to go talk to the person
that actually has a problem. So, user
access is a real challenge. The whole
company right now is just a super
interesting spot because um you know,
Paul Graham would always talk about how
you can think of the world as basically
a bunch of Venn diagrams of like, here's
people who know how to build software
and then here's people who have lived
your life experience, you know, in
spending time in you know, service to
your country and then also, you know,
getting to know a lot of the people who
you got to know through Palantir as
well. And it's like basically now
there's this once in a while you you
usually these worlds are sort of like
separate and then once in a while
it forms a startup like your startup
where there's a union of those things
and then those are the people who can
actually create something that
builds a billion-dollar industry or 1000
billion-dollar industry.
But you know, so that's I guess that's
why I'm so excited to to be working with
you because it's been cool to see that
play out over the past few years. You
know, I think it's it's a constant
journey, right? Like you talk about
you've done a video, I forget which one
it was, but it it's about finding the
value that you can create in the world.
And I remember on on my own journey
being captivated by software early on
and going to work in Silicon Valley in
the year 2000 right in the middle of the
dot-com boom and going to Stanford which
is not a common thing to leave the UK
and go to college in the United States
at the time.
And then when 9/11 happened and I felt
this need to serve and I waited till
senior year, graduated and enlisted so
that I could go join special forces
which is the hardest job that I could
sign up for at the time cuz I wanted to
go make an impact.
And I remember I think it was 2010.
I'd I'd been part of an operation to
help stop a bombing in a capital city
and I sort of took a step back and said,
"Okay, well, we we prevented a terrorist
attack. Like how else can I contribute?
How else can I create impact and where
else is there leverage, right?" And it
comes down to product and
so I I was recruited to go join Palantir
and we built some amazing things at
Palantir that that made a real
difference for for the end users. The
the software that we built was used to
to plan the recapture of Iraq from ISIS.
And and created huge huge enterprise
value
Palantir and and new contracts. And
again I kind of took a step back and
said, "All right, well,
well, how else can you continue to
create value? You stopped a bombing, you
built some software that the Navy SEALs
used to help stop ISIS. Like what's
next?" And I think that's where
you you kind of you talk about the honey
badger approach and you got to kind of
like cut the parachute a little bit, cut
away and say, "All right, it's time to
step into the unknown and and push the
envelope and make sure you're going for
it all the time and thinking like where
is that intersection? Where's the middle
of that Venn diagram?
And and what can I do in the middle of
that Venn diagram? And then it just
becomes clear at that point. Taking a
step back, I mean, one of the things I
love to ask people who come on the
channel, it's
you know, a lot of people here watching
are actually really young early in their
careers and
you know, what advice would you give to
you know, the 20-year-old version of
yourself? Actually, I think we probably
met each other when we were like
probably around 20 actually. Yeah, I
think it was it was probably actually
about 20 years ago
this month that that we first met. I
guess my first piece of advice would
probably be 2009 you're going to get
throw a hand grenade and you take a knee
instead you should lie down.
In all seriousness and it's something we
see across a lot of other founders as
well as
you have a lot of people who are very
very driven.
It's important to take a holistic
perspective of life and to make sure
that as we're focusing on on going and
building businesses and learning and
acquiring skills and creating value in
the world
remembering that that value extends not
just in the professional domain but also
it includes friends and family. And it
also includes yourself as well and it
becomes down to to really making sure
that you invest in a holistic way to to
live the best life that you possibly can
because
when you create value in the world it's
about creating value for other people.
And and certainly we think about that
as users, we think about that with
investors, but it's also about the way
that you can share energy with other
people and it's about the way that you
can create positivity and
help set an example for others I think.
We're we're definitely not islands and
then we have so much that we can
actually
do for each other actually and I don't
know, that's the coolest thing about
like making a business period actually
is exactly that, you know, you go out,
you see a problem, you go and solve that
problem and then in the process you
actually need people and so you can make
a great place for people to work.
I mean, it's about making systems that
you know, ideally make the whole system
better and and that's what you're doing.
So I'm pretty excited about that. Some
closing thoughts might be around what
was it like to be able to look at
Palantir so early when there was sort of
that first sub $100,000 contract or you
know, sort of through even like
making 80,000 a month or something, but
then to be able to grow that 10 or 100x
is you know, that's something that you
were able to do and what was the most
surprising thing? What was the thing
that really just stood out to you from
that experience and experience that
you're seeing right now? I think there
was like a very very deeply iterative
approach. I mean, I remember when
everyone in in BD in Washington DC sat
around the same table together. I think
what we were acutely conscious of is
that it was a huge team effort. You have
guys like Doug Philippone, you have
everyone that's pushing so hard to try
and create create this better reality
for software. In that case it was in the
intelligence operations space.
It took a huge team effort was hugely
iterative and it was very much it would
you would just walk into a wall and find
out hey, what's the where's the doorway?
I'm just going to keep walking into the
walls until I can find a doorway.
And and what we saw is that there's
there's a lot of physics to the actual
marketplace. There's dynamics that you
can actually harness that you can then
use as a lever to to magnify your
message, to magnify your reach and
actually create access across the
organization and create adoption and and
create demand as well. And ultimately
that demand is what brings better
products into the marketplace and so I
think seeing that grow, it was a it was
a long journey, but I think it was also
an amazingly fulfilling one. That makes
a ton of sense. Taking a step back,
Addyton is hiring. I guess what's the
best way for people to sort of
get involved? addyton.io. Yep,
absolutely. There's a form on the
website. If if you want to join our
team, then
you can go right there, drop your
contact information in and
we're absolutely looking for really
really passionate front-end developers,
looking for full-stack developers, we're
building a whole team.
And then I would also include we're
looking in particular for for veterans
who have a lot of end-user empathy with
an eye for product and there's some
amazing people that that we know from
our past experience,
but we're looking for people who say,
"Hey look, like
I want this to be better." They got to
feel it in their bones that they want
this to be better.
And we're pairing those people up with
engineers who just have this love for
creating product with mobile technology,
who love like the edge cases
delightful to them, you know, it's a
challenge for them, it's a puzzle.
And so if there are folks who have a
strong sense of purpose
who want to work in a high-performing
team environment, we have a team-first
culture
and who are thinking about the career
opportunities and you know, are seeing
there's the next there's the next cat
picture messaging application, there's
the next ad tech thing
and if they want to build software that
people use every single day to to go
fight wildfires, to to go um
move people around in the Middle East,
to to go keep people safe,
then we're a place where you can
actually combine your creativity with
product with a sense of mission
and really build value that has impact.
James, thanks a lot for coming on the
channel and I mean, thank you for
letting us invest and be a small part of
this very very big and important
journey.
Gary, thank you for the adventure.