Title: Why now? The key to million dollar startup ideas
Video ID: LioyyxLgfXQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LioyyxLgfXQ
Channel: Garry Tan
Published: 2022-10-12T13:48:48Z
Duration: PT17M15S
Views: 109150
Likes: 4974
Tags: Garry Tan, Garry Tan vc, initialized capital, Garry Tan initialized, Garry Tan initialized capital, Silicon Valley vc, sf vc, a16z, Andreessen horowitz, best Silicon Valley vcs, Why now garry tan, startup secrets, startup timing, how to time a company, best time to start company
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 402

Description:
As you think about whether you want to work on or at a startup, I want you to ask what great investors ask themselves all the time: WHY NOW?

Subscribe to Initialized Capital: https://youtube.com/channel/UC5fnPuszm7AarpX40Gjed8w

How real movements start and change the world: https://youtu.be/JbHip4tjEcg
Turning $300K into $2B with Coinbase: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x5YApjnTG10
Roll your way to a Startup Unicorn: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r8hhvw-1b-M&t=0s 

00:00 Why now?  
00:45 Ne

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

New startup ideas that really work tend
to take only a few forms. New tech, new
behavior change in society or new
regulation. As you think about whether
you want to work on a startup idea,
whether it's starting it yourself or
deciding whether to work at a startup, I
want you to ask what great investors ask
themselves all the time when they meet a
startup. Why? Now, let's get started.
[Music]
[Applause]
The whole reason why there's opportunity
in startups is actually technology. And
technology progresses on a curve.
linear, superlinear, and exponential.
Here's Lex Freriedman and Ray
Kerszswwell talking about being able to
predict the future through technology.
I mean, I did OCR in the 1970s.
Optical character recognition.
Yeah. So, we were able to do that in the
' 70s and I waited till the 80s to
address speech recognition since that
requires more computation.
So, you were thinking through timing
when you're developing those things.
Yeah.
Has its time come? Today we're talking
about why now because that is the key
question and given tech curves you can
predict when things become viable the
way Kurszwell did when he pioneered
optical character recognition and speech
recognition. Today, the frontiers
probably revolve around things like
large AI language models, computer
vision, blockchains, but they might
actually still be some of the oldest
ones out there, like mobile phone
adoption or number of transistors on a
chip. These are all powerful
technologies that are driving new things
that human beings are now capable of
doing. And when you start a startup or
you're trying to evaluate a startup,
it's one of the best things to evaluate.
And let's take a concrete example.
Almost anyone can look at a smartphone
today and say, "Wow, that really changed
the world." But what you might not know
is that for many, many years, even a
decade before the successful iPhone
debut, there were attempts like this
one.
And it was a telephone. It was
essentially going to be a smartphone
with a lot of intelligence in it.
When we were talking about reinventing
telefan, we meant it.
We're trying to make something that
people love. We need it to be like your
watch, your glasses, your wallet. We
decided to make everything. That meant
we were custom building every piece.
It's it's insane. And
how small will it finally be? Like
someday Dick Tracy wristwatch.
This was the beginning of what became, I
think, the most important company to
come out of Silicon Valley that nobody's
ever heard of.
That was a clip from a great movie
called General Magic. Named after, of
course, the company that tried to make a
smartphone at the moment that the tech
was not ready yet. And here's what that
looked like. In 1994, this device cost
1,400 bucks. It had only 1 megabyte of
RAM of 4,800 baud modem, which is about
480 bytes per second, and they had a
monthly data fee of $400 per month. 13
years later, Apple and Steve Jobs
delivered the iPhone 1. But what we're
going to do is get rid of all these
buttons and just make a giant screen. A
giant screen.
The iPhone 1 costs $499.
It had 16 GB of storage and 2.5G cell
network, which was about 300 kilob per
second. So about 16,000x the storage,
600 times faster network, and it cost
1/3 the price. In tech, orders of
magnitude improvement is not just
possible. It's actually the key to
breakthrough. The most powerful things
you could work on come on the back of
not a 50% or 2x improvement, but on
16,000x better, 600x,
look for the 10x. Look for the 100x.
That's why tech is the most powerful
thing because it is the driver for those
10x, 100x, and 1,000x improvements that
change things and leave them changed
forever. Why now? Sometimes the answer
is it literally can only be done now.
That was true for the iPhone and that
was a perfect storm.
Now technology is huge but the next why
now once technology is broadly available
is actually the human mass behavior
change that happens. You know the
smartphone was an amazing business that
was hard won by Apple and Google in the
end. But that's often just the
beginning. These technological
innovations stack. Here is a graph of
smartphone adoption as a percentage of
population. And so you can see that the
smartphone went from something that was
very fringe, not a lot of people had it
to suddenly everyone had it. And right
around 2012 was when Instacart happened.
That's the grocery delivery startup that
I funded when I was at Y Combinator. The
founder sent me a six-pack of beer and I
said, "What the heck is this?" I
downloaded it and I saw the future
literally right before my eyes in my
iPhone. It's a huge part of
Initialized's first fund and it's
returned the whole fund several times
off of that one investment. But to know
why now for Instacart, you actually have
to understand the history that happened
right before it. You have to look at Web
Van which was a huge failure that raised
over $396 million from Sequoia
Benchmark. And yes, even SoftBank. This
was 1997, so literally 25 years ago. The
company ended up losing over $800
million and shutting down in June 2001,
which really marked one of the last
gasps of web 1.0. When Instacart came
around 11 years later, people were
wondering why now. And it turned out to
be one of the most powerful why now I've
ever seen up close. What has changed
today and and why this is the first time
in history where a company like
Instacart is actually possible is
because smartphone penetration.
There hasn't been a time where
smartphones um are are so prevalent that
everyone has them. And and as a result
of that, we're able to to utilize the
the people who have them to pick and
deliver the groceries. So when you want
to order groceries, we connect you with
someone who can pick those groceries and
deliver them to your door. So this is
the same reason why Uber and Lyft exist
today when they couldn't have existed 10
years ago. So you know we we think uh
you know in our opinion uh it's actually
price selection and convenience all
three of those are important. It's not
just one thing and with Instacart I
think that customers can get all three
of those.
Today Instacart has been churning out
profit and it's a household name. their
software eating all of grocery and they
wrote a Y now that was also the driving
force for Uber, Lyft and Door Dash, all
multi-billion dollar startups today.
Funny story, my partner Kim My Cutler
actually wrote the first article in 2012
on TechCrunch about Lyft's pivot into
the first citizen driver service. This
was even before Uber did Uber X. Before
that, Lyft was called Zimride, and they
were a ride sharing app that let people
do long haul rides better than posting
on Craigslist. Zimride becoming Lyft was
the pivot of a century. And all because
it was behavior that drove a giant why
now. Suddenly, big mobile workforces
were not just possible, they became huge
billiondoll industries.
Now, I'm a technologist and we may love
technology, but I have to admit there's
a very powerful type of behavior change
that is a third kind of why now. And it
might be a bit foreign to you and me,
but it's still a key driver of why
certain startups can happen at certain
times. I can't think of a more extreme
example of this than actually Uber.
Here's Bradley Tusk, famously one of the
people behind getting Uber approved in
many cities including Washington DC, the
primary American power center of them
all.
We started in 2012 in DC actually. So we
launched in DC was going well and then
you know taxi did taxi typical thing.
They got a member of the city council to
put in a bill basically that would
outlaw Uber. And at the time, you know,
we didn't know if this would work or
not. But we sent an email from Travis to
all of our customers saying, "Look, if
you like this thing, you want to keep
using it. We need your help." And in the
course of a week, 50,000 people
organically, you know, reached out to
the city council and said, "I want this
thing." And not only did we kill the bad
bill, we passed our bill unanimously,
including voted for it by the sponsor of
the bad bill who then voted for us.
Regulation is a crazy double-edged
sword. It can limit and destroy your
business just as much as it can support
it and make it possible. Working with
the government is like any other
enterprise partner, only way more
fraught. They're the elephant, and they
can either raise you up or crush you.
Your job as a founder is to find the
former and avoid the latter. When I was
at Y Combinator, I remember meeting
Parker Conrad when he was working on one
of his first startups, Zenits. And the
thing that really jumped out at me in
his YC application was actually one of
the big reasons I wanted to fund him. He
had pointed out that Obamacare was about
to roll out and that meant that millions
of small businesses and medium-sized
businesses would be mandated to offer
health insurance. That turned out to be
a mega trend need that drove huge
adoption of not just Zens, but Gusto and
yes, even Parker Conrad's new decacorn
startup, Ripling. When the government
comes and says X needs to happen,
there's a wave of business activity that
is going to rush towards that thing. And
if you can spot that before it happens,
it'll be you who figures that out first.
Now, if you ask what's the why now right
now when it comes to regulation, I'd say
the biggest enduring one facing us today
is climate change. Here's initialized
investor and partner Kimai Cutler, who
wrote that first Lyft article on
TechCrunch back in the day. this is what
she sees in this space.
In my lifetime, I've never seen a moment
like this where the political consensus
around climate change is hasn't has
never been more urgent or more obvious
or more inescapable than right now.
It doesn't take much to realize climate
change is happening all around us,
whether it's wildfires, record
temperatures, or storms the likes of
which we've never seen. And there's
change of foot now in DC and the halls
of power. And so that th those climate
disasters, those effectively man-made
climate disasters, you know, created the
political will for for the inflation
reduction act, which is the first of its
kind, the largest climate package the
United States has ever done, has ever
seen before. And that's going to lead to
lots of different incentives around
decarbonizing our entire economy and the
way that Americans live. And that's a
huge opportunity for entrepreneurs to
latch on to right now. One of the
hottest startups in Silicon Valley today
is the one Kim led a series A in called
Pano, which is fighting wildfires. One
of the worst disasters plaguing the
American West. And it's something
computer vision is here to solve.
We had a policy of the last 100 years of
suppression where we didn't allow any
fires and fires had to be put out, you
know, by, you know, the early morning
every day. Um, and so we've accumulated
this huge fuel load over the last
hundred years that in combination with
higher aridity because of climate change
is setting off these mega fires. And so
we're going to have to head towards this
world where we're actually having more
managed low inensity fires versus
uncontrollable unpredictable mega fires.
And to do that, you're going to have to
have like a lot of tech, frankly, to do
it. that that that's going to have to
be, you know, situational awareness
from, you know, smart cameras that can
identify smoke plumes and triangulate
where fires are and how fast they're
spreading across a terrain. Um, we're
going to have to do that going forward.
and Upano, which is a deal that that we
did the series A for, as part of that.
They are a network of, you know,
computer vision enabled cameras
monitoring huge amounts of terrain
across multiple content continents,
Australia and here. Um, helping, you
know, first responders, utilities, and
private land owners figure out how to,
you know, identify and manage wildfire
on land.
Pano is going to be a huge business that
solves a giant societal problem. Kim
Mike Cutler is an amazing investor when
it comes to this third kind of finding
startups with a strong why now. Because
governments are one of the largest
forces in our lives, like it or not. And
where that works to a founders's favor
is that unlike big tech that's totally
opaque, unlike private corporations,
governments are generally built to be
open systems with governance and
policies that when done right, are
transparent to everyone, including you.
Regulation is the largest, hairiest, and
most difficult to handle. Why now for
any startup, but it's the one you should
always be aware of. You might not be
interested in the government, but the
government is interested in you.
Technology, behavior change, and
government regulation. Those are my
three why nows I want you to keep in
your mind as you evaluate any startup
idea. Those aren't the only three, but
those are the ones that I have seen up
close, and we funded dozens of
billion-dollar startups that have made
it based on those three. Wired writer
Paul Ford says, "Watch for the curious
and interesting intersections between
very large things. Look for the points
of contact or points of conflict. Pick
two enormous forces and wonder how they
connect. And where those intersect is
the one big question. Why now? That's
why we're here. And that's why I'm so
glad you found my videos. That's why I
hope we can get there together. I want
you, yes you, to be the creator of a
better future for all of us. Technology
continues to change our world. And if
you can build that technology, you can
be the lever on that fulcrum that moves
everything. This is the mission. You can
get the skills. You can build your
people networks. You can learn how to do
this. And you're on the right path. If
you ask the right questions, product
market fit will find you. Alan K says,
"The best way to predict the future is
to invent it." What future will you
invent? Let's go get it.
[Music]
So, that's it for this week. I've
actually made almost 100 videos that
help you on your journey to be a
founder, builder, or manager. We live in
a fallen world that won't get better
without your elbow grease. If this is
your first time watching, please click
like, subscribe, and hit the bell icon
to make sure you see every video we make
for you. If you want by bite-sized
snippets of the best parts of those many
hours of videos I've made over the
years, or if you want to hear more from
brilliant investors and founders like my
friend Kim My Cutler, click over to the
Initialized channel link down in the
description and hit subscribe. you'll
learn a lot more about the future both
on this channel and that channel, too.
As always, thank you for watching. I'm
gonna be watching the comments to answer
any questions you might have about
starting a company, and I'll see you
next week.
[Music]