Title: The Untold Stories of Y Combinator with Co-Founder Jessica Livingston
Video ID: oYFjKml9ptk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYFjKml9ptk
Channel: Garry Tan
Published: 2024-04-29T17:30:07Z
Duration: PT1H2M5S
Views: 14515
Likes: 423
Tags: Garry Tan, Garry Tan vc, initialized capital, Garry Tan initialized, Garry Tan initialized capital, Silicon Valley vc, sf vc, a16z, Andreessen horowitz, best Silicon Valley vcs, jessica livingston, the social radars, jessica livingston y combinator, y combinator, y combinator founder
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1588

Description:
Come hear the untold stories of Y Combinator with Co-Founder Jessica Livingston, and learn how she got started in her incredible career in startups. 

Listen to Jessica interview billion-dollar startup founders on her podcast "The Social Radars": https://pod.link/1677066062

Subscribe to Jessica's podcast on Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMifE9PU5FPV1M7wC61K5CQ

00:00 Jessica’s origin story 
10:22 Pre-Y Combinator Career
19:25 Moving home to Boston
33:35 Early Y Combinator
39:46 Meet

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Jessica, thanks for coming on the show.
Gary, thanks for having me. I'm so
excited to be here.
So, I guess I'm really interested in
getting the stories that you feel like
are a little bit untold. And then, just
as you created Founders at Work to sort
of capture the origin stories, I'd love
to capture the origin story of Jessica
Livingston, if that's possible.
It'll be quick. There's not much to it.
I always felt like you grew up in the
Northeast. Is that correct? Like what
you know, what was growing up like for
you? I grew up
in a town called Wellesley, outside of
Boston. Typical, you know, nice suburb.
And I had a little bit of an
unconventional childhood in that my
parents were divorced got divorced when
I was 6 months old. My father raised me.
My mother left. So, my father raised me,
but because he was working I lived with
my grandmother, his mother down the road
all during the week. And she was
essentially my mother.
And you know, in the '70s, now of course
that wouldn't be unconventional at all,
would it? But back in the '70s, it was
very strange. Like I didn't know anyone
who didn't have a mom. But for the most
part, it was a pretty conventional
childhood outside of of that. I, you
know, had a lot of friends at school. I
academically, I worked really hard when
I was young and I liked sports. I was
pretty typical typical kid. What kind of
sports did you play? You know, in
elementary school I played everything. I
was excited about everything, but then
as I got older and into high school, I
played soccer and I played goalkeeper in
in soccer. And I really I really liked
that. That was sort of my focus. What
did your dad do for work? Like how how
did you sort of, you know, obviously now
and since you've just become literally
the social radar for what business is
and could be, you know, what was that
interaction like? If you had to reflect
on that. This is why it's so strange. I
mean, I'm I'm so
grateful that I finally got involved in
startups and I always feel like I got
involved in startups like 15 years too
late because my dad believe it or not
worked at the same company for his
entire career. He worked at the Gillette
company. And he did various things. He
worked for different divisions. So, it
wasn't like the exact same job for 35
years or 40 years or however long he
worked. But he always worked for
Gillette. And he commuted in with a suit
every day. And you know, I mean, it was
great cuz it was very predictable and he
was home for dinner and you know, didn't
work on weekends. So, it was, you know,
very good for me as his as his only
child at the time. So, we were really
close. But that's what seemed normal to
me. Like I never knew anyone. I barely I
don't even know if I knew anyone who
like had their own business, much less a
startup. And in fact, I have told this
story
once before, but when I decided with
Paul to start Y Combinator
I remember the most scary part about it
was just telling my father that I was
like quitting my job at an investment
bank that had all benefits and had a
secure salary and all of that. I
remember being so scared to tell him
that I was doing this new idea that I
couldn't even barely explain because we
didn't really even know exactly what it
looked like. It was just I'm doing an
investment company with Paul.
And I remember the first thing he said
was he looked at me, probably a bit
shocked. And then he said, "Does it have
health care coverage?" Like that's what
you care about as a parent. And I of
course said, "No,
but I'll figure I'll go on Cobra or
something." Um but yes, he had a very
traditional sort of job that he was very
good at, but it was traditional. Makes
sense. Was it like marketing or sales,
engineering? Like was there a particular
focus? It was all in accounting and
finance.
And so
he he is a numbers person and very
organized. Like fastidious and
organized. And I am not a numbers
person. He's sort of appalled how I, you
know, I struggle to read a balance sheet
sometimes. After getting to know you
over many years, you seem like an
extreme people person to me. Were you
always like that? Jessica in high
school, was that What was that like?
That's an interesting question because
high school was sort of unique. I will
say I was a people person. I had lots of
friends. I always liked people and
because I grew up as an only child I
really depended on these friends. And I
you know, I'd have lots of sleepovers or
I'd stay over at friends' houses all the
time. So, I was always doing stuff with
friends because it was, you know, kind
of lonely at home. But when I got into
high school
I wasn't quite as much of a people
person, I think. I went to this boarding
school that was very academically
rigorous. And unfortunately for me I
don't I think it was too much for me. I
I had gone to a school that, you know, I
was a straight A student, did very well
and then switching to this this much
more difficult school, I struggled and
sort of lost my confidence. So, I I
think I became less of a people person
in high school. But then in college, I
was pretty social in college. I spent a
lot of time socializing and I did I
laugh a lot because when people ask
about the social radar, you know, do you
learn this sort of thing?
I don't First of all, I don't know what
I don't think I can read people all that
well. Maybe better than Paul. You know,
Paul, my husband. But I will admit that
in college I did spend an extraordinary
amount of time analyzing situations,
romantic situations with my friends and
oh, what do you think he meant by that?
Or, you know, just spending a lot of
time. I'm always drawn to people's
personalities and what's going on. So, I
I that is definitely that interest is
innate. It is funny how in like social
settings with so much can be
communicated in like the turn of a
phrase or just nonverbal communication.
Just like did you see the way that
person, you know, looked at or and even
during YC, I always thought it was
fascinating how the 10-minute interview
was so powerful because you could tell
so much about a person even in an
incredibly short amount of time. Oh my
god, so much information. If you're
looking for it, you know, so much
information like body language.
You know, I I
often tell people like we'd have we'd be
doing an interview. I remember there was
one where someone the co-founder was
talking and the other person literally
put their arm in front of them and said,
"I'll take that question." Like
basically, shut up. Um and and I'm sure
that person like didn't mean to do that,
but there's so much body language and
sort of expressions say a lot, too. What
would you say to, I don't know, the 16-
or 18-year-old version of yourself? Like
if you just explained what happened in
over the course of your career and life
thus far. Like would that be surprising
to you? Oh, very surprising. I would
say, I mean, honestly, when I was 16, I
was pretty lost. I just
and I think it's because I I wasn't
great at school anymore. And I didn't
have a project. I just sort of didn't
feel I just felt sort of unmoored for
many years, actually. And
you know, it was very clear to me that
like I was I I just sort of felt like an
outcast, sort of like a bit of a loser.
And I've written about this in uh a blog
post I did called Grow the Puzzle Around
You, which essentially was a little bit
the most autobiographical thing I've
ever written. And it really is to
inspire other people like if I can
become successful at doing something
like this, you can, too because I
guarantee you the
teachers in my high school
I'm sure had written me off as a totally
irrelevant. And like I never would have
been vo- voted most likely to succeed. I
was not I I bet teachers wouldn't even
remember my name if you said it or who I
was. I was that you know, I just blended
in. I mean, if I could send a little
message back to me, I would change a
lot. I I mean, the first thing I'd say
is like
it's going to get easier. I don't know
and I'd say focus focus on your school
work cuz you are pretty smart. And if
you just I think I got so insecure about
not about struggling that I didn't know
how to ask for help. And so, I would
have told myself like focus on getting
better grades. And I wish I honestly
wish I had sort of learned to build
things back then or learned to program.
As you know, I'm I'm in my 50s now. I
just I I never say never, but I really
don't think it's in the cards for me to
program, you know. I'll just ask Paul to
do it or one of the many other
programmers I know. But I wish I had
experimented with that. I wish I had
experimented with all sorts of
different, you know, studies and fields.
And I just I totally gave up on math. I
dropped math after junior year, never
took it again.
Swore it off. And then
when I went to college, I just didn't
work hard. I I think I'd tell myself
maybe take a gap year and sort yourself
out for a year. Just take a little
breather. Um and get energized to go
back to college cuz I really I kind of
squandered my college years a little bit
not working hard.
And then strangely and then I graduated
which with a degree in English which is
not really that practical. Can't do a
whole lot with that. Although I tell
Paul this all the time. I say I do think
it helped me
with writing at least practicing. But I
remember when I first started working I
got a job at Fidelity Investments right
out of college because Gary Fidelity was
a big company in Boston and that's what
I knew. You know, my dad had worked at
Gillette also based in Boston. For me I
didn't know what I wanted to do and a
friend was like well they have a
training program. Why don't you go work
there? I just sort of thought okay, well
that's safe, you know, I trust that. So
when I started working at Fidelity I
loved working.
It like changed every I just felt like
I felt like trying hard. I felt like
doing a good job.
And I really really enjoyed sort of
focusing during the day at what I was
doing and then not having to like write
papers or you know, study for exams and
things like that. I mean finance chose
you in some respect then it sounds like
randomly.
What was that process like? I mean cuz
even by college like graduation's coming
like all the different options sort of
like unfold and then it sounds like that
there was a program for leadership
really spoke to you. Or just like man
this is like sort of like a program that
Oh, I don't know.
Gary, a program for leadership? Oh, I
don't know. I mean it sounded like there
was like a thing that you wanted to do
like you were like oh here's a thing
that I could go start in start in. I
don't know. No. Gary
Let me be clear. I'm playing when you
say finance we're playing fast and loose
with the like definition. I was in like
a customer service
call center.
Oh, okay.
mutual funds at Fidelity Investments. So
if you own, you know, the long-term
growth fund or Magellan fund or whatever
contra fund you know, and you actually I
started out at the lowest point you
could customer service. I couldn't even
make a trade. Customer service you
wanted to change the beneficiary on your
account. I took care of that. You wanted
to know what your account was worth or
change your address. I did all of that.
You know, and if I couldn't help you I
couldn't help you I'd transfer to the
brokerage department to do the trades or
you wanted to make a new investment
transfer you to the sales. So and oh, by
the way, it was the night shift. It was
well, it wasn't fully the night shift.
It was 3:30 p.m. to midnight. That was
my shift. And actually
I was just psyched to have a job and to
be getting paid something, you know, I
loved getting paid. And there was a nice
group. So like they train you. That was
the great thing about Fidelity is that
they bring you on, you know, me with an
English major, someone else with
something else. As long as you were
smart person they'd train you on on
a lot about mutual funds and how
everything worked and then once I was
into the organization that's when I got
as everyone did, you know, a little bit
more ambitious and
I studied for my series 6, series 7 and
63 which are these brokerage, you know,
licensing things that um you know, not
not the hardest thing in the world but
I'll see you definitely had to to study
at them and passed and then I was able
to move into the sales group and make
trades and I mean it's still a little
frightening thinking of me at age 24
advising people on where to put their
retirement money or whatever. But you
know, the Fidelity to their credit did
teach everyone a lot of things and and I
did that
um for like
year and a half or two years. Yeah. So
it was I guess a lot of
explaining to people how like pretty
complicated things work actually and or
here's what you should do. Yeah,
although honestly mutual funds which is
what I was focused on. I mean nothing
more fancy than that. They're pretty
straightforward and
you know, there is it it it it's pretty
if you distill it down to, you know, if
you have a long-term time horizon how
risky do you want to be that sort of
thing. There is it
it it's not that hard to understand.
It's not like I was choosing specific
stocks or doing anything more
complicated than like mutual funds. Um
but it was a great great experience. I
got these licenses. I was able to sort
of parlay that experience into my first
job where I moved to New York City and
worked at an agency that was like an
investor relations agency for health
care and biotech companies. And so there
what I did was it was it was in the the
late 90s so there were a lot of
companies going public, a lot of
companies getting acquired and you had
to have a basically a PR firm that tried
to to communicate directly with the
mutual fund companies and the fund
managers and the research analysts, you
know, who are ranking the the stocks and
things like that and we'd set up
quarterly earnings calls and of course
we're using faxes back then cuz email
was out but it was just starting to
become more adopted. So the the way that
the analysts heard, you know, where the
companies made announcements to the for
their quarterly conference calls was on
a fax.
So we used to send stuff through a fax
machine and you know, put out wrote a
million press releases and you know, we
got media interviews and it was it was
really very interesting again cuz at the
time late 90s was the bubble. Lots of
exciting stuff was happening. Basically
I mean this was even before the
internet, right? So I all of this is
online now but or maybe it was just
beginning. It was just beginning and it
was it was this company
in New York. So it was in like 1995.
That's when I first used like Netscape
Navigator
to find stuff. It was it was just
starting to happen. I guess it's
interesting to reflect on that's how
people would raise money
and that's how people would get started
and that's how still a lot of people get
raise money or get started is they sort
of start a business and then later they
have to hire sort of a a PR firm or like
a you know, an agent to go out there and
try to raise money for them. Well, we
wouldn't raise money for them. We would
like my job was to call or you know, to
try to
gather interest. I would set up meetings
with research analysts, you know, who
would cover companies in the biotech or
health care space. And get meetings with
them in hopes that, you know, Morgan
Stanley would pick up coverage on this
company or, you know, meet with the fund
managers, you know, at Fidelity or
Warburg Pincus and all these companies.
Were these public companies? Yeah, a lot
of them they were either going to go
public soon or they they were public.
But back then, I mean this is in the
late 90s companies were going public,
companies were like getting slapped
together to go public. I mean it was it
was crazy. Yeah, I guess today those
companies are increasingly staying
private.
Yeah, oh yeah. And then there's
all these other ways to keep the
companies like sort of funded and
growing and alive
which is interesting.
And this was before stuff like
Sarbanes-Oxley and stuff like that. But
you know, I loved being in New York.
Very social. Definitely people person
there. I was
very interested in my job and and
writing stuff and you know, promoting
people and you know, with their
constituencies and stuff like that and I
liked it. It was a bit of a
It was like long hours. Really long
hours.
You'd have to work and I but I was
young, you know, so I didn't really
mind. I'm curious like what would, you
know, the Jessica of that time think of
what you know now or what you've seen
now?
Like it must have been a shock to think
about okay, well here are these public
companies and then here are the people
who have money and then we have to
explain to them that the company's good
and then embedded in that is like shoot
there's like demo day in there or how we
help companies or even in our office
hours like say this, don't say that,
right? Like were you doing that kind of
thing back then?
Sometimes, yeah. I mean we'd be writing,
you know, road show presentations. I
mean we wouldn't write it from scratch.
We'd
be collaborating with the CEO and the
CFO. But we, you know, there's a lot of
of storytelling. I'll say that and I
worked on a few annual reports. So there
was a bit of that and, you know, press
releases. I always joke cuz
they seem so formulaic but I think
they're sort of a useful thing to be
able to concisely and clearly persuade
people. I'm not saying I'm very good at
persuading people as evidenced by some
of my early efforts at YC
um with the press and stuff. But I
enjoyed it. So after I spent a few years
in New York City and sort of I always
used to tell people it was a great place
to live when I could afford not to be
able to afford to live there. Like I
didn't save up a cent. And one thing I
wish I could go back and beat myself
over my head about was
why did I just throw away so much money?
Like why didn't I save my money? Because
what gives people power and flexibility
in terms of their career in my mind now,
young people, is having some sort of
nest egg that you can fall back on if
you ever got
fired or laid off, if you wanted to
start a startup and you could pay the
rent for a year, you'd be able to take a
risk. But when you're living paycheck
paycheck to paycheck, which I
essentially was, you can't lose that
job. You can't leave that job. And I
blew through it, you know, like an
idiot. You know, I was 25, but I was so
irresponsible. So irresponsible. So
finally I decided, you know, I'm going
to go back to Boston where my dad was
and still had a lot of friends and stuff
there.
And what did I do? Oh, I know what I
did.
I at first I I worked at this magazine
called Food & Wine magazine. Have you
ever heard of it, Gary? I I I feel like
it's pretty mainstream.
Yeah, totally. And you know, it would
have like this big event called every
year in Aspen, Colorado called um
Oh my god, the Classic at Aspen. That's
what it was called. And they'd have like
Jacques Pépin and Emeril Lagasse, Bobby
Flay, all these people. And I worked on
that for like there for like 9 months
and I loved it. I didn't get paid much.
And this is what happened. So I worked
on that to do a total change, like get
out of the finance world and just sort
of
do more event and marketing. And I loved
it, but I didn't get paid much. And so
then I said, I better go back to Boston
and I moved back in with my dad
at that point. And then I got a job.
Well, I ran a marathon in between moving
and going back to Boston. I sort of
spent 2 months training for a marathon
and I did one and done.
Amazing. What year is that?
That was in 1998.
Yeah.
And then I got a job uh
at this consulting company in the
automotive industry, but doing their
conferences. They had a bunch of
conferences and I would plan those. And
I loved it. I loved running events. I
don't know. Um I don't know why. I just
did. That to this day is like a huge
part of what YC is. Well, it is.
We have software and we have events and
it's like sort of all of the things like
are actually have to work together to
make it work. Well, this is what I wrote
about in Grow the Puzzle Around You. I
had this like really kind of random
background and like events I could run
with an arm you know, tied behind my
back. And so YC though was so much of
about events and still is like you you
say. But back when it was just me, Paul,
Robert and Trevor, you know, the events
were on a much smaller scale, but they
were still events. The dinners were
events. You know, interviews essentially
were events because we had people coming
in and out the door and you had to plan
the logistics and what how do you greet
people and have food for them while
they're waiting and all that stuff and
keep everything running on time. And
then we do Startup School, which was our
big event every year. Then that, you
know, was couple hundred people, but it
would grow every year to hundreds and
hundreds till it was like a thousand.
And so events were always a very
important part of YC and I was able to
do those by myself for many years. I
guess your story like really reminds me
of like you know, at 25 I also 20 Yeah,
22 to 24 I was definitely spending every
dollar I was getting from Microsoft. So
that makes me feel better.
I was definitely doing that. And then I
also had a I don't like this anymore.
How do I do something very extreme
that's like different. And then
I was uh I tried to be a hip-hop
photographer for a magazine.
Also a magazine.
For which magazine? I think it was like
I can't remember what it was called. It
was like a hip-hop magazine out of East
Palo Alto.
I don't remember the magazine that I
did. It was just like, you know, hip-hop
something rather magazine. But I mean it
wasn't a big magazine. And then what's
funny though is I remember the name of
the other magazine the producer did or
the guy who I worked for did and it was
Damn Girl magazine and it was like a
pin-up magazine. I was like,
Sorry, I can't work on that one, but
Oh my gosh, you never told me that. I
never knew that about you.
That's why I went to your went to the
Startup School events with my camera. So
I had like these giant like cuz that was
my gear that I was like trying to turn
into an editorial photographer.
Oh my gosh.
pipe dream, so. And And instead you
started Posterous instead. Yeah. Yeah.
This is the thing though. I think like I
love that I had a sort of random and
varied background I guess cuz I am where
I am now. Now, if I could like give
myself advice back then, I would have
said, first of all, I was a very hard
worker. Even though in college I was
not. Once I got into the real world and
employed, I worked very hard.
What I should have joined a startup. You
know, I couldn't program, but I could do
everything else and you know, as you
know, the early days of a startup, you
just have to have someone doing a little
bit of everything and I'm certain I
would have been a good early employee at
a startup. But I didn't know what they
were. I didn't really know I didn't know
anyone who worked at them.
You know, it was this completely foreign
world to me. Um and so I think young
people are lucky now cuz even if they're
even if their direct family aren't
involved in startups, it's out there.
You can find startups and information
about startups much more easily.
I guess the wild thing is there going to
be people watching this right now who
are literally in those shoes and they're
like, oh, what is this thing? How do I
get over there? So that's why this is
this media is like not necessarily for
is for basically us when we were, you
know, from 20 or 30 years ago actually.
Well, then here's here's the advice that
I It's
It's going to sound I'm not joking when
I say this, but I'm a little bit joking.
Like I cannot tell you what a loser I
felt like
in high school and college.
Like just
didn't feel very good at anything,
didn't feel very ambitious or interested
in much. I mean, I had friends and I had
a lot of fun and all of that, but I just
was not very focused on anything. And I
don't think people thought that I'd
probably accomplish very much. I don't
think they had super high hopes for me.
And the point is like anyone can do what
they want later in life if they focus,
you know? And it took me a long time.
You know, we didn't start Y Combinator
till I was I think 33. So I feel like I
lost this decade
of really an important time in my life.
I mean, my 20s were when I had the most
energy and was the least distracted as a
human being. I mean, if I could have
started a startup in my 20s, oh, I would
give anything to go back and be able to
do that. Cuz now it's like I'm
distracted by a million things. I feel
like I need to like practically take a
nap every day. You know, I just like do
not
I do not have nearly as much focus and
energy um as I did. But like anyone if
they are okay with the risk and have
some, you know, interesting ideas and
are open to possibilities, I feel like
they can do it. I guess one thing that's
coming out from this is you know, there
are just so many like you would find a
job and then you would learn something
from it and then you'd sort of move on,
whether it's like communication or
working like PR, working with investors
and then
and then events. I mean, Food & Wine
sounds like it was a really fun time
actually cuz that was also even seeing
like an event at that scale, at that
level of like taste and refinement was
like very useful. A very com- complex
event. They had a like a whole team of
people that worked all year round on it.
You know, I just came in as sort of a
intern kind of thing. But the last step
on this job thing before YC was that
after the automotive consulting
conference planning thing, I got a job
in the marketing department of a
boutique investment bank in Boston. And
for the most part I I really loved it
there because I was doing a little bit
of everything in this this job was like,
you know, PR, marketing, writing, press
relations and things, you know, it was
all it was just a little bit of
everything that I had done. There was a
annual, you know, conference at this
bank and it was just it was really fun.
I don't know if the rest of the the bank
really valued what we were doing, but I
had a really nice boss and liked my team
and I sort of enjoyed what we were doing
until like the bubble burst and they had
all these cutbacks and I'd, you know,
fire people. And then, you know, the
other people at the investment bank
really didn't want any money going to
marketing and
I finally said, this is sort of a drag.
What was doing marketing for that like?
Like who were sort of the people you
were trying to reach and like what were
the messages that actually landed for
them? So the bank was um it was called
Adams Harkness and Hill
and it was it had been around for a
while, but it was very it was a boutique
bank. It was very small compared it
wasn't like on the level of Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley and Merrill
Lynch and all those ones. It had
traditionally been focused on Boston
companies, you know, doing M&A, uh
trading,
you know, they had research analysts,
you know, covering companies in certain
sectors. It was primarily like
technology, healthcare, and consumer
companies. But when I joined, they were
really trying to expand nationally and
change their reputate their sort of I
don't want to say like sleepy
reputation, but that's kind of what it
was. So, expand their reputation and
that was fun. You know, we and they they
my boss came on and got like a budget
kind of for the first time there was an
organized marketing push. And we did
this like whole advertising campaign in
like the Red Herring. Do you remember
that publication? And this is back when
people read magazines, you know, paper
magazines.
And so, we worked on like the the the
messages we were basically trying to say
is like we can offer you
you should choose us as your investment
bank because we're just as good as the
big the big guys, basically, but you get
more personalized service. I forget all
of the
all of the different things, but we did
all these focus groups and just like it
was just really interesting. And we then
tried to also like promote the different
organizations
within the bank that had never gotten
special special interest in them. Like I
remember the trading floor.
Like let's face it, one trading group
it's hard to distinguish trading trading
groups at the different banks. They all
kind of are doing the same thing.
And
the traders were
what's the right word? They were a bit
of a hardcore group, let's just say. And
um
they weren't as refined maybe and polite
at sometimes as as maybe the investment
bankers were, but you know, they said,
"Look, you know, we want to be on the
cover of Traders Magazine. That's all we
care about, you know? Just get some
legitimacy, you know, amongst their
peers and things." And I remember
finally we got them on the cover of
Traders Magazine and the photo was like
taken on our trading floor with all it
was like from way above showing all the
traders and I remember just being like,
"Yes, we finally delivered for these
guys." Cuz I really liked the traders,
you know, and we wanted to help them and
that was what they had they had wanted.
You know? That's awesome. Is is it just
like reaching out, getting to the right
people, and then boom, there it is? Or
Um we actually worked with a PR firm,
this great agency up in Portland Maine.
Um and they kind of just started we
started building a relationship. You
know, this
Just getting to know people. getting to
know people and you know, can we help
you understand like just being proactive
like our traders can talk about X, Y,
and Z. If you ever need someone, please
let us know. Oh, and I remember we also
got the budget to install a camera on
the trading floor. So, we could now
pitch to CNBC
and all of those TV station, you know,
television shows. And once we started
having our analysts, investment bankers,
traders being interviewed on our
bustling trading floor, that was a total
game changer. That's so interesting.
Yeah. So, it was all like just step by
step, you know, trying to get a little
bit more little bit more publicity. And
then if a reporter's writing something,
they need to call someone they can trust
will share a few interesting insights.
So, we got, you know, calls much more
often once we once we just started
appearing and had that camera
capability. I guess what's emerging is
like so many of the things that YC
became good at like sort of came out of
a lot of your experiences cuz like being
able to deal with media or like get
placement or like build those
relationships was like a whole thing.
And then there's there's like media and
there's events. And then when you add
software and then you guys, you know,
all of that together created community.
It's like a lot of these things sort of
come together a little bit more.
It's like sort of magical set of things,
really.
Yes, it is a sort of magical set of
things that you don't know what these
things are going to be. Like it depend
you know what I mean? Like anything can
be a magical combination. I do hesitate
to take any credit with Y Combinator and
the media because I really
Oh, you're just being modest. No, I'm
really not. Like no one wrote about us
early on.
And I just yeah, I feel like when I
think back of my relationships with the
press and YC, I feel like many were not
very good.
I don't know.
Cuz it's funny because it went from
being desperate for the press to write
about Y Combinator, you know, and
getting some publicity. And for like a
year it was terrific. And I remember
like when Steven Levy wrote, I think it
was like was it Newsweek? We got this
exposé on it was in oh god, was it in It
was the Octoparts. It was the one that
they were in.
And it was like meet the next
billionaires.
It and and I was just like we've
arrived. People know about us. This is
so exciting. And then it became
So, a boot camp for the next tech
billionaires in May 2007.
Okay. So, 2007. Okay. So, that's like 2
years later. That's not awful, you know,
that we got that 2 years into things.
But then things could get a little
antagonistic with the press and they
were always trying to knock us down and
like I feel like take things we said and
twist it around and I feel like I just
have this list of media that I don't
like. I don't know. It's sort of a It's
still like that.
Someday I'll write about what? Don't
worry, it's still like that. Oh, okay.
All right, that makes me feel better.
And never stop, you know, it was always
like that. I don't know. Was it I mean
maybe just there more tech press now and
they're not all
dedicated to being good reporters.
They're just wanting to get clicks. I
don't know. When you're coming up,
you're the golden child and you know,
you people do want to help. And then at
some point it flips and then you're the
you're the the man or the thing to like
sort of tear down because there's
someone downtrodden, which is like I
totally get like that's that's like a
whole trope for them, but
Yeah, it's it's it's fun tearing people
down, I guess.
you guys did a bad job. I thought you
did an incredible job, honestly. I don't
know.
It was that the other thing that I I was
So, maybe someday I'll write about the
media from my perspective. The other
thing I want to do someday, I want to
have like a Startup School reunion on
you know, Carolin and my podcast, the
Social Radars, of like all the crazy
stories of stuff that went wrong cuz the
Startup School every year that we do,
there was always some bananas
like thing that happened. Like one year
when Justin.tv had just started
Justin.tv, there was like a bomb threat
at Stanford while it was going on. We
almost had the whole event shut down.
But I want to have like a little reunion
of of of Startup Startup School players
and reminisce about all the crazy stuff
that happened. You should not feel like
you were bad at the media stuff. I think
that was really important part early on.
What was it like Was it Jenny 8 Lee
wrote like an article or Oh.
Yes, Jenny 8 Lee wrote No, the first
article ever written about us was after
the first summer and I think it was Ryan
Singel. I think that was his name and he
wrote just a very quick little thing and
Sam Altman was in it. And then Jenny 8
Lee, I forget how we even met her, but
she came to one of our dinners and or
something and she wrote a pretty nice
article about Y Combinator. And that
that was when we really thought, "Oh
gosh, we've now arrived. We have been in
the New York Times." And that was
heaven.
Even for YC to know that that was
meaningful or valuable to work on is I
think credit to you and what what you
worked on before then. I don't know. I
mean everything that came before comes
from some place.
I do I do think that my
varied background did I was able to draw
on certain things for Y Combinator. And
and to be fair, I did, you know, I did
used to invite the press, do a little
outreach, and invite them all to Demo
Day cuz I think even if I wasn't good at
convincing them why Y Combinator was so
great, I think if they came to Demo Day,
they could observe for themselves why Y
Combinator was so great. I mean there
were just so much so many novel things
back then that people take for granted
now, but even Demo Day. Think about as
an investor, you have to take all these
like singular meetings, you know, one
after the one after another. Imagine
being able to see, you know, 10, 20, 25
startups all in one afternoon. You know,
that was that was novel. And then,
you know, talk to them all there and um
yeah, we just I feel like a lot of the
things that did I think reporters could
sort of observe and think, "Wow, that's
pretty different than what's usually
going on." Now we're at the point where
okay, so you were at the investment bank
and then did you leave the investment
bank to work on YC? Or actually there's
like a whole story that you have talked
about at least privately with me. Oh
yeah, what? I'm like what what?
Flybridge Capital Partners, is that
right?
So, okay, I have to remember the timing
cuz it all gets it's gets a little
fuzzy.
But, basically,
I met Paul in 2003.
And through Paul and his friends, I was
sort of introduced to this whole world
of startups. And I immediately was drawn
to it. I mean, I just felt like this is
so cool and so much more exciting than
anything I've ever done or seen. And I
decided what what was going on at the
bank. I mentioned the bubble had burst,
they're making cutbacks, and it just it
just became a little bit boring at that
point and I wasn't that enthusiastic
about, you know, writing another press
release, you know, because I had to fire
the person that usually handled that.
So,
to combat my boredom,
I decided to write a book called
Founders at Work and it was based on the
Writers at Work series that how they
interviewed writers about how they wrote
and stuff like that. And I said,
"There's nothing out there about
startups." I read this book called
Startup by Jerry Kaplan about his story
about the Go, and I I was riveted. And I
just wanted to hear more of those
stories. It was so crazy. And Paul told
me stories about Viaweb, and I remember
thinking, "This is mental. Like, I don't
know about this stuff. Most people don't
know about this stuff." And so, I
decided just for a fun distraction
for myself, I'd talk to some startup
founders. And, you know, I had a little
tape recorder, and I interviewed them.
And I mean, I started small. I didn't
have connections at this point. But, I
sort of would get an introduction. I
interviewed Paul and then got a couple
introductions. I forget who my first
interviewees were. But then, I got a
book deal. It was actually I got a book
deal from O'Reilly, and I got a little
advance. And that is when I quit my job.
Cuz I was getting kind of burnt out from
uh
the investment bank. And I wanted to
focus on the book. So, I got this little
advance, and I said,
"I'm going to quit." But what had also
simultaneously happened was that I had
interviewed at this venture capitalist
firm. It was for the director of
marketing at their venture capitalist
firm. And I sort of felt like be working
at a VC is one step closer to an
early-stage startup, you know, than an
investment bank. So, I was really
interested in this. And they just sort
of Maybe in hindsight they didn't take
that long, but to me it felt like they
were taking months and months. And I'd
like interview with one person, they'd
say, "Great. We'll come back in another
2 weeks." It just took a long time. And
so, in this like 6-week period, that is
when Paul and I would go out to dinner
every night, and we'd be talking, you
know, he'd be like, "Oh, well, if you
worked in marketing in an at a VC firm,
maybe you could convince them to like
make smaller investments." You know, cuz
right now, you know, they put in
millions of dollars, but these, you
know, young founders
they don't need millions of dollars.
They just need enough to pay the rent.
And so, we'd have all these
conversations. And we thought, you know,
they could really increase their deal
flow by doing events like Startup School
and all these different things. And
over, you know, 6 weeks, Paul, that's
when he said, "You know what? Let's just
start something ourselves."
And
I said, "Great." And that's when I went
and told my dad I was quitting my job,
and is there going to be health care
insurance? But I also had the book
advance and the book to work on. So, it
was sort of like I had this crazy idea
with Paul, but also the book. And I'd
work on both, like dual track. Um and I
just did not want to be employed. And I
actually did get offered a job at the VC
firm, but I had already,
you know, decided that this is what I
was going to do. The best thing I ever
did was take that risk, quit my job to
start something new. Even though it was
a little scary and certainly unknown.
The other amazing part of it that I just
will tell people in hopes of inspiring
them is that if you feel excited about
something, to do something where you
don't need to have a boss or you don't
need to ask permission. To do it for
yourself. Like writing a book. Yeah, I
had a publisher, but that was being
driven by me. Everything about it was
me, and I put everything into that book,
and it turned out really well. But I
wasn't constrained in any way by, you
know, other employees or, you know, it
was just If you feel like you you just
take the risk, it will pay off. And if
it doesn't work out, go back and do it.
You'll get hired again doing what you
were doing. That's so empowering. That's
that's awesome. That's a perfect
message. And save up the nest egg so
that you can pay your rent.
That sounds right. Can I ask about like
the first batch? There was Garden
Street, obviously. And did you already
have the space? Like, I mean, Oh my
gosh. I'd love to hear about like even
just from the perspective of you were
potentially going to go into VC, and
then this got a bunch of things sort of
jogging in your heads. Like, Yes. This
could be done in a different way. Yes.
still like pretty, you know, being able
to do it a different way is still very
different than like, "Okay, here's the
summer founders conference, and this is
happening."
Okay, so let me try to recreate this.
So, we said Paul said, "Let's just do
this ourselves." And the plan was
at first
was that it would be a regular
investment company. And Paul, who wanted
to be an angel investor and help
startups, but you know, he does not like
looking at pitches, he does not like
taking meetings, he does not like
distractions. He didn't want all of
that. So, I was going to run the
company. And, you know, we'd have an
office in Harvard Square, and we'd take
meetings and make investments, and he
would specifically be there to advise
the specific startups. And it was going
to be all his money. And And then he got
Robert and Trevor to pitch in, too. So,
it would just be very simple, but
asynchronous investing. But immediately
we thought, "Well, gosh, none of us
really know how to be angel investors.
So, let's do Let's teach ourselves by
doing this like program this summer."
Cuz I think it was in March, and we
thought we have time to catch people as
they're graduating from college or are
looking for an internship in the summer.
They're junior or something. Let's catch
the programmers. Cuz the whole thing we
wanted to fund programmers who
might not know about business side of
things, but they were good programmers
and they could learn the business side
of things, like Paul himself had to do.
So, we said, "Let's just do a summer
summer founders program." Is what we
called it. And Paul like
hooked up the website. We had, you know,
a few questions. And we said, you know,
literally it just happened all so
quickly. We're like, "Let's like put the
application out there, and we'll
interview people in 3 weeks or
something." Very quick time frame.
And we'll call it the summer founders
program. It'll happen in Cambridge. And
we were going to use Paul's personal
office that he had bought and just had
like renovated and soundproof so that he
could write without any, you know,
distractions. And it was the sweetest
space. As you remember from being there
that summer of 2008, wasn't it just the
most fabulous space ever? Oh, yeah. It
was perfect. I mean, perfect for dinner
and conversation. And it felt like
custom-designed.
It did, didn't it? It had like open
kitchen into this living room where we
had the table. So, then we had the
tables built, and they were like trestle
tables and benches. Um we had those
built. But actually, I think first,
before we built the tables and
everything, we said, "Will we be funding
anyone?" Like, we didn't even know if
anyone would show up. But Paul posted
this thing on his website, which and I
think it must have gotten on to like
Delicious or Slashdot because he had
been writing essays. That's the only way
Y Combinator could get started was that
people, programmers specifically,
followed Paul Graham because he was an
expert in Lisp, and he wrote some
interesting essays.
So, having distribution is a big deal.
It's like that
Huge deal. media stuff is important. You
know, just just as like for bankers,
like you have to like get into
traditional media or Newsweek or
different things like that, for hackers
it was it had already gone on on the
internet first.
Yeah. And no one would know to have
applied, you know, if that we didn't
have this distribution. So, that was key
that we had this small, you know, niche
distribution channel. But it was the
niche we were trying to appeal to.
Perfect. And lo and behold, we got like
a bunch of applications. We're like, "Oh
my gosh, there are a lot of people." So,
I think we
forget how many people we chose, but
let's just I think it was something like
maybe 15 startups a day.
And we had like these half-an-hour-long
interviews. Maybe they were even 40
minutes. I really should go back and and
check just to see how long. But they
were super long. And at the end of the
weekend, oh, so part of this we said,
"We're going to decide that day. And
we're going to call them all and tell
them yes or no that night." Because that
was one of the things that Paul said
should be changed about venture capital
is how long it took. You know how you
get strung along. And you just need a
decision. The longer it takes, the more
information the investor has. But it can
kill a startup, you know, matter of
months can kill a startup. So,
we interviewed them, called them back
that night, and there were
like seven startups that we were
funding.
The Reddits were in that batch. Sam
Altman was in that batch doing his like
geolocation com- company before
smartphones. Oh my gosh, he was eight
like No, he wasn't 18, but he was 19. He
couldn't even rent a car, but he had to,
you know, fly to do deals with the
carriers. Like
That's what he was doing that summer.
Deals with carriers and stuff. And then,
you know,
Emmett Shear and Justin Kan of Twitch
were in that doing a calendar app. So,
you know, we didn't know what we were
doing, Gary. We just sort of put one
foot in front of the other and said,
"Well, we're going to help them. We're
going to have these dinners once a
week." And then Paul would cook the
dinner, but I would like I remember I'd
put like candles out. We'd light a fire
in the fireplace. I'd get cheese from
Formaggio Kitchen,
lemonade and stuff from Whole Foods. It
was like a dinner party every week. And
these startups would come together and
we'd have a guest speaker who we'd like
scrounge up from our network. I mean, I
I think I invited uh one someone from
our investment bank to come talk about
M&A. You know, like these guys needed to
know about M&A. They didn't at that
point, but this This is what we're
working with. We had patent lawyer and
stuff like that. But it was still we the
model seemed really interesting how
people would come together once a week.
And they became friends and they'd, you
know, tell each other about their
progress that week. And, you know, Paul
would advise them. And I helped
incorporate them. I had sort of had to
like cuz we wanted to save people the
legal fees of having to hire a lawyer.
So, we thought and this was totally
novel at the time. We said, "Let's
create template documents to
incorporate." And there were like seven
different documents you needed. But you
really It seemed complex, but you really
just filled in the blanks here and
there. And so, I would go sit down with
the founders and say, "Okay, this is
what you do and this you have to think
about. How much stock do you want to
allocate? And here's what it means." And
then they'd file all the stuff and
become companies. That's so cool. I
mean, I guess
you just detailed like so many different
ways where there was like an edge or a
bug or just like a thing that was not
quite right about how startups would
start or how investors would invest in
startups.
And then each of those were different
enough like on their own that they'd be
differentiating, but when you combine
them all together,
they were sort of this mega punch, I
guess, which was like to the industry.
We were trying to lubricate that fulcrum
of the world. You know what I mean?
Because there were just all these teeny
little hurdles
that, you know, young programmers might
think were insurmountable, but they're
not. And we thought younger people get
get started. Now all they need is a is a
laptop and pay some hosting fees and
stuff. And it was just getting a lot
cheaper to start startups. And we
thought younger people should be doing
this. They don't need millions of
dollars. They just need enough to help
them pay the rent and eat and stuff
until they can build something to then
go on and get more funding. And that
that was demo day at the end of the
summer. It's so interesting to to hear
this arc because it sounds like the book
was one of the first like of a sort a
startup cuz, you know, prior to that you
sort of had a boss or you had to like
sort of be a part of a team or a system
that was not your own. And then the book
gave you total agency. And then YC was
like this another level beyond that that
like has touched everyone and it's like
so insane. Turns out I love the freedom.
I love working on my own projects,
honestly. And had I been more self-aware
or more in tune with the kind of person
I was, I
wish I kind of had discovered that when
I was 23, but I didn't. But I loved
working on my own projects. And with
like I loved working with Paul. He was
so like smart and amazing. And we just
everything we had so much fun working
together, especially when it was just
like the two of us. We just, you know,
we'd split up for the day. He'd do his
thing. I'd do mine. We'd come together
at night and continue to talk about it.
We talked about YC all the time. Always
coming up with ideas to improve things.
Cuz that's That's one of the things
that we did at YC. We changed things on
the fly. You know, we always were
experimenting with trying to improve
things. Well, what if we just tweaked
this? Would that improve it? And that's
why I think I mean, YC's constantly
being improved. You're improving it. You
know, a lot of the partners are
improving it, but you got to be open to
changing things a little bit. Yeah.
Having I mean, having a great co-founder
then it's That's the proof's in the
pudding for your story then, too. It's
the Oh, yeah. Oh my gosh. I think Paul
and I were each each other's like
perfect co-founders cuz we were so
different in many ways, but we were so
similar. We shared the same values. We
wanted the same things. We treated
people We had the same like moral
compass, if you will. But we had totally
different skill sets that were so
foreign to the other. Like I don't I
think Paul was still like amazed that I
was able to open up a bank account. You
know, like cuz that would stop him in
the tr- in his tracks. And of course,
Paul is like a genius for
startup ideas and things like that. And
he's, you know, very much he'll say
whatever he thinks needs to be said. And
whereas I'm like behind the scenes and I
don't talk to people, you know,
publicly. We're just different different
personalities, but it worked perfectly.
So, picking the right co-founder is
critical. I What I'm hearing is like if
you if you had figured out that you
wanted to be a founder or to have
agency, like really deep agency,
earlier, that would have helped you in
like sort of all these other respects.
Like earlier, maybe. And that you had to
It had to come to you like in this in
the way it did. But people watching
often are like, you know, I don't feel I
don't feel like I have ownership over my
life. Like things don't quite feel
right. They're not clicking. I
definitely felt like something's not
clicking and I just always felt like
I worked to earn money so that I could
live. And I like lived for the weekends
or my vacations or whatever.
And even though I like enjoyed, I guess,
what I was doing, I wasn't really that
into it. And I certainly wasn't making
money from it. That's the thing. You
know, you as a 25-year-old I was
working, you know, super long hours. But
that didn't affect my salary. You know,
I'd work all weekend on an M&A
announcement. All weekend. I remember
there was one weekend where I had like
two hours of sleep for two nights in a
row because the deal was being
announced. And we were up, you know,
with the investment bankers and the the
executives at the company. And my agency
made tons of money. And I think, you
know, we got an orchid or something.
You know, as a thank you. And it's just
like, "Mm."
So, when I say I wish I had been more in
tune with working on my own projects or
thinking like And maybe I didn't know
enough back then to add any value. But
again, when I was in my 20s, there
wasn't internet. You couldn't publish
any blog posts. So, I don't know where I
would have published anything if I did
have any pearls of wisdom for anyone. Um
but the point is
I wish I had known I could work at a
startup. I wish that seemed normal to me
or or a path that I could have taken
because I think it would have been a
hell of a lot more interesting.
I might have made some more money. And
um I don't know. I just think for me it
would have been better. The year's 2005.
You did your first then your second sort
of summer, you know, it's like summer
and then winter.
Like
what were some of the things that were
most surprising about like the
interviews themselves? Cuz that's one
thing that I realized was very special
about YC. It's like on the one hand,
you know, we give people money and we
uh help them with their business, but
part of the reason why we can help a lot
of people is that we actually help all
these other people, too. I mean, the
social radar at least partially, I
think, is also the sheer volume of
having seen
so many smart people and all the things
that could go right and could go wrong.
I mean, if you think about what a VC
does, a VC might meet like hundreds of
people a year and then fund like five of
them.
And then the ability to read thousands
of a thousand applications, like meet
hundreds of people, and then like
directly work with dozens of people
per year over many years. Like you see
startups in a way that like no like the
reason why venture capitalists do it the
way they do it is like it's designed for
them. It's not designed for,
you know, sort of founders. And then you
just see so much more. So, it's almost
like having a radar that only does a
turn every year or something as opposed
to like every five minutes or every two
minutes. Like you you actually
understand what's going on. And maybe
that links into like what social radar
or like radar period means. It's like a
frequency and like you just see so much
more.
Well, I'll tell you what one thing
that's interesting and I hadn't really
thought explicitly about it till you
just asked me about it, but I had all of
these startups that I was working with,
helping, advising, seeing fail, seeing
succeed. All this
[ __ ] that you just see when you're
funding, you know, 80 startups, 100
startups. I mean, by the time I left the
batches were getting pretty big. So, you
just see a lot of it. But don't forget
also
that every Tuesday night we would have
a Mark Zuckerberg come or, you know,
some famous
successful startup come talk. And I was
I pulled up my chair, you know, right
next to the YC founders in the audience.
I never missed a talk because I learned
so much from them. So, I have crazy
stories coming at me from like the YC
founders who are just getting started.
Then you have the kind of crazy stories
in hindsight that were by the way, back
when I was there, people were sharing
stuff they had never shared publicly.
You know, and and cuz they trusted the
YC audience and we had a rule you're not
allowed to tweet about anything that's
shared and for many years secrets were
kept in the office, in the YC office.
So, I was learning about it from that
end, too. Then I did
you know, the Founders at Work book,
learned a lot from that. And during
Startup School, I would often be the one
interviewing the speakers. Like if they
didn't want to prepare a presentation,
I'd interview them. So, I loved learning
about them from quite like questions
that I had from that. So, I was just
having all of this input come in and I
think I can't help but
want to do something with that, you
know? And I love talking to people. I
love hearing about how people overcome
adversity
in any in any way, but especially in
startups. I love hearing stories about
that. I love talking to these super
successful famous people who tell me
about how they couldn't raise any money
cuz everyone starts out the same way.
You know, you're nobody when you start
and it's just I find it very
inspirational because I do I've always
believed and I still believe that anyone
who is sufficiently ambitious and
determined and reasonably smart
can start a startup. Like anyone can do
this if they want to. So, I just hope,
you know, I like to continue sharing
stories
from the most successful startups cuz I
just feel like it'll just inspire more
people to do it themselves.
Jessica, that's a perfect place to end.
Thank you so much. This is awesome.