Video ID: 1egwM88T3C0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1egwM88T3C0
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 182
============================================================

I'm Sachin from Skyvern and I'm here to
talk to you about how context is all you
need or as for a tongue twister, stop
the slop shop. So, just for context,
Skyvern is a company that helps open
source company that helps largely
healthcare companies automate things
they do manually in the browser.
And we managed to scale past 2 million
run rate with me basically being a PM,
doing all the marketing, doing all the
sales and customer support all on my
own. And it wouldn't have been possible
without all of these agents helping me
every day. And so, we have agents that
write PRDs, that manage SEO, do content
marketing,
customer support, and and even fixing
small bugs. And I'm going to kind of go
through my favorite ones today with you
guys. One of the big reasons that agents
produce slop, which every engineer who
doesn't like AI likes to tell you, is
because they love to do what they're
told,
but they often don't have the context
required to do it well. And you can
think of it as when you hire a new
engineer or new employee, they try to be
helpful, but they just don't have the
context for your business to really be
helpful right away and they take time to
onboard. Agents are the same thing. And
so, giving good instructions, giving
good context, and letting them critique
their own work is how you make them much
more effective at their job. And what is
good context? Well, it's everything
about your business. I think many of the
speakers today have covered this.
Getting access to your email, getting
access to Slack messages, um giving it
access to Notion where it has like your
um documentation, giving it access to
customer call recordings so it can
understand this one customer has issue
with this one part of your product and
actually be able to correlate it, giving
it access to even your database as some
companies are doing where it can
actually look up, "Hey, this customer
did these runs and these failures
happened." and be able to kind of
diagnose it accordingly. And this is
some place where remote companies have
an unfair advantage. You know, every
in-person company, the context is
spoken. You go up to somebody, you're
like, "Hey, this customer really cares
about latency. You got to make sure that
what the feature you design matters." In
a remote company, it's recorded on a
call or in a Slack message. In person,
it's lost.
And so,
you have to think of it you know, all
these tools are basically your company's
knowledge base and anything you don't
record isn't saved. And so, you have to
kind of restructure your company
accordingly to make sure you are taking
advantage of it all. And so, I'm going
to go through two really specific
examples and how we use AI today. Two
Two skills, really, that help us move
faster. So, the first one is write a
PRD, so PM, product requirements
document.
And this skill is pretty pretty cool.
It's a little vague here, but it's vague
on purpose to give the AI freedom on how
it does it.
So, first it goes into a call recording
or all of our call recordings and does
like a search over the topic that I
wanted to write a
spec about. Then it'll
search Slack for
communication about it. Um it'll search
Notion and also our customer customer
recordings uh and customer
communications and really draft a first
draft that is grounded with evidence and
it's rather like concise.
And then we have sub-agents that run
that do adversarial review on it. It'll
It'll read the first uh set of comments.
It'll read the first set of comments in
the document. And finally, it'll go
through a prioritization framework. We
use Rice, but you can use anything, to
really take out all the junk
requirements that it thought were
important, but aren't actually important
once it goes through a framework. And I
basically did this and I started sending
it to our our team and they're like,
"This is slop. This is slop." And I kept
tuning it until people are like,
"Actually, it's not bad. Actually, I'll
write I'll I'll I'll use this to draft
my draft my feature." And so, an example
is um back in February we were having uh
CAPTCHA solver issues and uh we had a
few customers complain about it. So, I
wrote I wanted to I wanted to write a
strategy on how we kind of deal with
that and identify it. And it actually
went through and found specific
recordings linked to them so people who
were going to work on the feature could
actually look it up. Second one,
content marketing. Every morning I get
this email. It's here are post ideas on
last 20 conversations you had with
customers. Here's the five posts.
And the way it is generated uh add me on
LinkedIn if you're curious on to see how
it works. It basically goes through last
20 internal and external customer call
recordings, tries to bucket topics into
a few things like recurring pain points,
contrary and observations, stuff that
does well on social media,
drafts five posts, one for Twitter, one
for LinkedIn, five copies, five
different topics,
and then it runs through a DAI advisor.
It's not very good, but we use Pangram
for it to take out like really sloppy
words to make it seem LinkedIn content,
I guess.
And then um
tries to put a meme in it cuz you know,
funny stuff's obviously better than not
funny stuff, and then sends it to me by
email, I review it, and then I publish
it. And it basically made it so that I
could publish five times a week cuz
otherwise I didn't have time for it. On
Friday I got a message from somebody
from my network. We posted something
about an insurance agency doing carrier
portal automation using our product, and
the person's like, "Hey, actually I have
a friend who's looking for this right
now." And it was a super specific thing
I never would have written, but it was
auto-generated from a customer
requirement, which is really cool. So,
just a quick reminder, remote companies
are automatically good at this. Um and
in-person ones are not, so you'll have
to change how you work. And so, what we
did at Skyvern was basically we stopped
letting people send DMs.
Nobody's allowed to send DMs in in our
company. Everybody has an office
channel. They have to ask their
questions in there. Every future hire
now and now has the benefit of that. I
would record every call, internal or
external. Even my one-on-ones with my
co-founder are recorded, which you know,
whether they should be or not is an open
question. And then we give agents access
to everything,
and we give everyone access to an agent.
We hired two sales people recently, and
I made them set up a call code, and they
were dying in the first hour,
but then they got used to it.