Video ID: 1pjiS-t_O0w
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pjiS-t_O0w
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 546
============================================================

[music]
I'm Ankit from YC. I'm here at Nurups
with our YC and Arc Prize afterparty.
I'm here with Karan Gaul, the CEO of
Cartisia. And we're really excited to
have you here.
>> Great to be here. Thanks so much for
having me.
>> Why don't you start by telling us a
little bit about what Cartisia is? Yeah.
So, um, Cartisia is a two-year-old
company. We are, um, formerly,
um, researchers from Stanford where we
did our PhDs. Um, and, uh, we worked on
architecture research there. Uh, decided
that it was a very important research
direction and we wanted to commercialize
and build products around it. So, we
decided to start Cartisia and a lot of
people know us as a YCI company. uh in
that we build uh models for developers
that are trying to build voice
applications. Um I can describe it in a
few different ways. Uh but um I think
that's like the common way that we're
known.
>> Rewinding a little bit when you said
that you're architecture researchers,
could you tell us a little bit about
what that means? You know, in a sense
that a lot of machine learning for the
last decade has been architecture
research. Um in more recent years, you
see people working on scaling and more
like engineering problems on a single
architecture. What do you mean by when
you say architecture research? Yeah, I
think machine learning and AI is just um
putting data into architectures to make
um really cool models uh on lots of
compute, right? Um that's a very uh
short way to put a very complicated
endeavor, but uh but I think um it's
clear in the last like um 10 years like
obviously with transformers and self
attention and so on like we kind of
figured out like really good recipes for
building really powerful models um and
that became then the entire industry
around LLMs. I think that when we were
grad students, we were um this was back
in 2019, 2020. Uh we were pretty
interested in um what are some of the
biggest challenges that will remain when
these models are scaled to their logical
conclusion. And part of what we were
pretty inspired by is human
intelligence, right? Like humans are
very uh efficient, you know,
intelligence for what? And um are able
to do, you know, multimodal uh things,
right? like interact with people, um
take lots of actions, think um and be uh
very productive. Even the average human,
quote unquote average, is is very very
productive and and is a feat of
intelligence basically, right? And so I
think we were very interested in what
kind of architectures would make that
type of intelligence possible [snorts]
that's very long context, that's very
multimodal, where you can interact. And
so I we felt like the the transformer
paradigm because of you know limitations
in in the actual architecture itself uh
would not be the right one to build
something that's closer to human
intelligence. And so we started working
on it back in grad school and um when my
co-founder Albert is a pioneer in the
field he uh invented this area of
spacebased models um which are these um
recurrent models to do um uh to build
you know deep learning models with and
uh and that's been um you know an
interesting sort of set of research
directions that we kind of undertook and
I think it was really a belief in the
research and the fact that like I think
in AI there's often a feeling of like is
there more to do uh But I think we were
always very optimistic about like well
AI is a very big field and there's lots
of unsolved problems like we should go
out and do new things not necessarily
the same thing in a different setting
right which is often what I think has
happened in the last few years
>> and so when you think about spacebased
models or architectures like that you
know I I think about the history of how
models like the transformer came about
you know if I rewind the clock to 10
years ago people were working primarily
on RNNs to do language modeling and
using LSDMs with attention and that's
eventually what led to the transformer
former. Um, how should someone think
about models like spacebased models with
that history in mind? Like is there an
analogy to what an RNN does versus what
a transformer does that this sort of
answers uh a limitation of each of these
two methods?
>> Yeah, I think I think there's like
architecture research is fascinating.
Firstly, I think it's like super
interesting for folks that are um you
know working on machine learning. I
think more people should work on this
stuff. There's different ways to think
about intelligence and like one uh thing
that we think a lot about is the this
idea of compression
>> as being sort of a very fundamental uh
primitive for intelligence, right? So if
you have uh if you imagine trying to
build a model that is going to reason
over huge amounts of information, you
know, obviously you need to abstract and
reason over that information in some uh
more compressed form. Whether it's
because you need to consolidate, you
know, your understanding of the world,
like what does a cup mean in text? What
does a cup mean in the world physically?
What does a cup mean when you uh, you
know, say the word out loud? Um, you
know, all these different
representation, audio, video, text, etc.
need to be consolidated and put together
in some way that's reasonable and that,
um, also is uh, something that can be
used interactively, right? So, basically
what I mean by that is humans are able
to take all of these representations and
then use them to act in the world over a
hundred years, right? So I think that
transformers are fundamentally limited
by their um inability to model and
compress compress representations in
this way and they're um sort of like
context window machines, right? Like uh
they're very retrieval oriented
machines, right? Like I kind of think of
that the difference between like a raw
text file and a zip zipped version of
it, right? Like it's sort of like you
want to have um these like more abstract
representation. A compression is a good
it's pressure to build those. And when
you say that a transformer is a
retrieval machine, are you saying that
you know the specific primitive in a
transformer with you know keys and
values and queries is acting to enforce
this prior as a as something that would
be effective at retrieval versus what
other alternative architects would do.
>> Yeah, exactly right. Transformers sort
of set at one extreme. That extreme is I
have all like my historical data or my
you know prompt or context, however you
want to uh frame it is all available to
me in raw form and I can reason over it
and I can answer you know very specific
questions about it um as needed and an
example of that is I can recall facts
exactly. SSM have a fuzzier
representation of the world. So they try
to compress all this information which
means you lose fidelity but you at the
same time gain something which is by
compression you build abstractions. So I
think that's the tension. they live on
different extremes and in fact one of
the interesting things that's emerged is
these hybrid models that are basically
bringing together a lot of the strengths
of both of these architectures and
you're seeing a lot of u modern models
like you know even like quen etc like
these the sort of like open source
models that are being built on different
forms of hybrids right like um these are
just classes of architectures there's
many variants and so on there subtleties
in terms of how they're implemented
inferenced etc but I think uh that's to
me the conceptual difference in terms of
the extremes that they occupy. And the
question really is like what is the
ultimate architecture, right? The not
not the one that's like taking bits and
pieces and putting it together, but
ultimately what is going to be best for
multimodal data where you can really
learn and and then use these models um
over like very long time scales. I think
that's what we're interested in at
least.
>> And it's interesting you frame it in
terms of multimodality because to your
point earlier, many people consider you
to be a voice AI company. And so in
outsiders view might be okay this is a
single modality. It's audio presumably
or text maybe with some kind of text to
speech thing going on. How do you think
about what multimodality means in terms
of the specific company you're making
and why is that maybe an at least an
incomplete picture of how to think about
it?
>> Yeah, I think um a lot of people uh when
the word multimodal is said they conjure
up an image or a video in their heads. I
think um I think uh video models are
very sexy and role models are all the
rage all the time. Uh but I think what
we're very interested in is what are the
right approaches to actually build and
scale multimodal models. And multimodal
just means like to me a signal and uh
some sort of like discrete symbol or
like text, right? That's kind of how we
think about it. And so even a
transcription model which is u something
that's perhaps considered one of the
most boring tasks is actually multimodal
because you're actually trying to solve
a very interesting problem of taking a
signal and mapping it to a discrete set
of symbols,
>> right? as opposed to it being a single
in a in a standard LLM pre-training set
where it's from text to text here you're
going from audio signal directly to
>> right and so when you have two
modalities you get many different types
of tasks and you know different types of
representations you need to build right
so for example uh one is the prediction
problem of like can I generate a
modality condition on the other one or
maybe a combination of the two there are
problems in learning alignments between
them like uh what part of audio
corresponds to what text that could be
transcription It could be trying to
understand the audio in some way like a
person is yelling in this fragment of
the audio or this piece of music is you
know reminds me of Mozart right like
these are all different ways of thinking
about correspondences between them. So
it's a very rich space and the question
is like how do you do better
unsupervised learning on multimodal
data. Now for us as a company the part
of the reason we really chose to work on
this is um a I think we wanted to find a
a grounded set of problems where you
don't have to bite off the entire pie
like this is a very big space and there
are many difficult problems here. Uh by
>> wasn't like this is why you picked
audio.
>> Yes. This is why we picked audio and and
audio text specifically because it's a
signal meets text problem and there are
many other signal meets text problem
like video and text and so on. But if
you I we believe that if you can solve
one in the right way you can solve all
of them. So that's one of the core
beliefs we have around how we do our
research that if you have the right
recipe for building great audio text
models you will have the right recipe
for building great um models for
robotics for video etc.
>> Could you elaborate on that a little bit
more? I mean I mean you say it as a
recipe it makes sense but when I think
about let's say a robotics model it's
not intuitive to me what the recipe is
you're referring to that comes out of
audio that'd be directly relevant there.
So help me understand like what would
that I mean maybe some of this is future
you know thinking but just at least
hypothetically like what exactly mean by
recipe here. Yeah, a lot of the
multimodal um domains have common
problems which is um and I think here's
here's a crisp common problem which is
uh you have a signal how do you
represent that signal in tokens in order
to train models over it. This is a very
very standard problem and so um in audio
for example you would want to take the
audio signal the audio wave file and
turn it into a bunch of audio tokens and
then train models on those audio tokens.
In video you do the same thing images
same thing. In robotics as well, you
construct um or in you know these joint
you know joint angles or you know
kinematic trajectories you're
constructing some sort of representation
discrete representation and then you're
trying to train models on it especially
if you're trying to predict these
things. So um it's very much the same
set of problems and so the core question
is how do you actually build the best
representation of a signal right that's
the core question and it it goes to the
heart of both architectures but also
this idea of tokens and tokenization.
This is this is the intersection that we
work on. So we are trying to solve it
from the lens of you need new
architectures and you also need to
rethink tokenization completely like you
need to basically think about um not
audio as uh you know somebody's hand
engineering uh you know 16 kHz signals
into 50 Hz but more as like how do you
learn over these raw signals in terms of
hierarchies of abstraction inside the
model directly end to end learning of
that. So a simple way to say it is we
want to get rid of tokens
>> and have the model learn this
representation internally
>> and that part feels transferable
>> and that part is entirely transferable
to any other signal in the world
especially if it's done the right way.
It would be like saying transformers
work on different types of tokens right
like this these are just like things
that will work out of the box then so
that's why we wanted to have a focused
point of view on one modality. The other
piece was we felt like uh the impact of
all of this research on architectures
ultimately as a startup needs to be on
some real problems and products right so
I think we were very interested in as I
said quote unquote building the average
human or building these for these
problems that are basically high
interaction um uh large context and lots
of action taking. Um so that's why we
were like okay let's take the call
center agent
>> and think about that because that is
actually a fairly complicated thing to
build a AI call center agent with a
model right because you have to onboard
that person on day one and then you want
them to do this job for the next 10
years let's say and improve and and be
able to interact with different you know
customers and and and you know uh help
them with their their queries and so on.
I think that's kind of one way we think
about the company is we're first trying
to solve it for this specific type of
person and then if we can do it the
right way we can then take that and use
it to do a lot of things that quote
unquote average humans do which is not
average at all you know uh to be very
clear right like it is actually
extraordinary what people are able to do
but I think that's kind of where we
think intelligence can head and this is
very different I think than the notion
of like high IQ intelligence which is
very focused on math and physics I don't
have a you uh gold medal in any
Olympiad.
>> You only have a PhD from
>> I only have a PhD and that's you know uh
a much lower feat I would say than
getting a gold medal in one of these
things. Albert actually my co-founder
has an Iowa gold medal so I won't speak
for him but the rest of us you know I
think we we try to do our best and do
some you know fairly productive work I
think but it it's not because we can
solve math problems every day right it's
because we're good at dealing with
people systems uh taking lots of context
and using it to solve real problems and
I think that's what AI is not and I I
think that it's because of the
architectures and the way that we train
these models and the way they're built
and multimodality being one of key
things that is not working yet and not
for any other reason. That's that's our
bet basically.
>> Interesting. And maybe as like a a final
piece to talk about here, you know, as
you've been a researcher uh in entering
the space, you're a researcher in a
university. Now you run a research
driven company. You you started to
allude to it around, you know, why you
have a product focus as a way of, you
know, making this become real. I'm
really curious as you, you know, think
about, you know, folks who might want to
start research focused companies or just
in contrasting your time in research
versus running a researchbased company.
What are some lessons you've learned
about the kind of differences between
these and how uh your kind of product
and research sides can coexist?
>> Yeah, I mean I think it's been um it's
been very different from doing a PhD for
sure and doing research. I think um part
of it is here like uh in research often
when you're even in a PhD lab like I was
in Chris Ray's lab at Stanford it's an
amazing place you know during the time
that I was there tree did flash
attention SSMs were happening there's
just amazing work happening but I think
part of it is that in grad school and in
in academic labs you have uh many
different people with many different
visions for what they think they should
accomplish with research and that's why
it works right because actually like
there's a lot of curiosity about doing
new things and those things are all
different, right? Um I think in a
company it's almost the opposite where
there's only really room for one vision.
>> There's not really room
>> versus exploit.
>> Yeah. And I think within that you have
to find the room for exploration, right?
And you have to sort of build a culture
where people feel like they're not being
forced to do things that are uh you know
the same old same old, right? Like it's
not just like you do this work and
that's all you do. But at the same time
there's not room for random exploration
either. So I think that's the tension
that is different about a research team
that's in a startup versus a research
lab in academia. And I think it's right
actually that that is the difference
because I think that uh at least we
think we should be extremely focused on
only one point of view and we should uh
prosecute that to the end of the earth
right and we happen to have very high
conviction in that point of view uh and
happen to have worked on it for 6 years
but uh and one want to work for on it
for another 20 years if we can but I
think uh to me product is something that
drives discipline and truth to the work
you Because um let's take an example
like I think we would never ship a
product or a model uh with an SSM in it
just because
>> right
>> because we have customers and the
customers that we have expect the best
version of the product
>> right they don't care about the
architecture
>> they don't care about the architecture
and that actually drives a lot of
honesty into research because it means
that like you are going to run
experiments to prove that your product
or your approach is better for the end
user not just because you want to
publish something or you want to put
something out there that's new or
interesting. I think that's a level of
intellectual honesty that product brings
that I don't think is often seen in
research for better or for worse. I
don't think it's because of I don't
think it's because researchers don't
have the uh aren't honest about their
work. I think it's just that everybody
wants to do things that are new right at
the end of the day. And I think you want
to be able to have the right incentive
to say actually you don't need something
new when it's not necessary. That's very
important actually. So, so we don't want
to be we want to be delusional about uh
how uh we can change the world but we
don't want to be delusional about how
well our our models actually do or h you
know how much impact our architecture
will actually have. So I think that that
is not a place where I think delusion is
good. I think precision is good there.
So I think that's kind of how we think
about it. Um and that's why I think
product is very important for many other
reasons. I have other uh reasons. I
think actually a lot of people
undervalue the lessons that you know
even YC teaches to founders. I think a
lot of people think that research
companies aren't governed by the laws of
startup gravity. I happen to not believe
in that. I think that all companies
should be governed by the laws of
startup gravity. So I think that the
wisdom the YC wisdom should actually be
used by all research founders and I try
to try to do that as much as possible uh
and break the rules where necessary.
>> Yeah, [laughter] I appreciate you saying
that. Well, thanks so much for joining
us. This was a lot of fun.
>> Thanks so much. Thanks for having me.