Title: Fireside with Former FTC Chair Lina Khan
Video ID: 2SbBE9sxyYE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2SbBE9sxyYE
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:01:58Z
Duration: PT18M2S
Views: 1746
Likes: 39
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 468

Description:
Interviewd by Sanjana Friedman, Writer & Researcher at Y Combinator.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Lena, thanks so much for for being here
today. Um, I feel like we have to start
with Steve Bannon uh saying that he
thinks you're one of the most important
political thinkers in the country right
now. Um, and even suggesting that he
thinks you should be reinstated as as
chair of the the FTC. Um, I mean, you
you spoke at our inaugural event last
year alongside then Senator JD Vance,
who said that um you were his favorite
member of the Biden
administration. Um, and obviously the
political landscape has shifted
slightly, but you know, during the
campaign you had Harris advisers like
Reed Hoffman and Mark Cuban publicly
advocating your removal. Um, I'm curious
about your perspective on this this
contrast. You seem to occupy a kind of
unique political position. Um, and then
more specifically, whose worldview on
anti- monopolies is closer to your own,
Vice President Vance or former Vice
President Harris?
Well, first of all, it's great to be
here. Uh, it's a great question for
them. Um, you know, I think it is
really, uh, thrilling and and
fascinating to see that in a fairly
organic way, we are seeing people uh,
across markets, across the political
spectrum, uh, come to the recognition
that, you know, it probably isn't a
great idea to have our economy be
centrally planned by monopolists. And
that having markets where incumbents are
squashing out innovators, where
entrenched monopolists are pulling up
the ladder behind them really hurts us.
Uh it hurts us as consumers. It hurts
entrepreneurs. It hurts startups. Uh it
means that our markets are more stagnant
and less dynamic. And you know, I think
there is traditionally been a deep
understanding that extreme
concentrations of power pose a threat to
our core liberties, be that power that's
concentrated in the government in ways
that is unchecked or power that is
concentrated in a monopolist or a very
small number of companies. And so, um, I
think we've seen a lot of progress in
the last few years in terms of
reinvigorating our tools to take on that
unchecked power. Uh but of course
there's a lot more work to do.
Um so Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson have
a new book out that's kind of been
making waves um abundance and they make
the point I think their sort of their
central thesis is basically that
Democrats need to kind of focus on
regulations and red tape um as kind of
the primary obstacles to unleashing um
you know affordable supplies of of
things like housing. Um, I guess first
of all, you know, do you agree with
their premise that that government red
tape should be high on the list of of
problems for for Democrats specifically
to focus on? And if so, sort of how does
that relate to the challenge of
corporate power in your mind? Yeah. So,
big caveat, I have not yet read the
book. I was hoping to pick it up at the
airport on my way home. I think as a
general matter um you know one of the
biggest obstacles that I heard about at
the FTC from entrepreneurs and startups
was bureaucratic red tape that was
created by monopolists and that was
created by incumbents that were
unchecked in the market. Um, you know, I
had the chance to to not just speak at
the event, uh, you all did the last few
years, but also sit down with a lot of
entrepreneurs and startups, uh, and
people who were trying to get their app
to market and just heard about all of
this frustration they had trying to
navigate these rules set by these
private gatekeepers. And so I think any
analysis that's trying to honestly and
candidly figure out what are the
obstacles to progress and where do we
see those bottlenecks really does need
to grapple with the role of private
bottlenecks that are across markets. Uh
you know I understand that the book is
seems to be very focused on some
problems that are specific to San
Francisco and so you know I think we
should be wary about extrapolating that
beyond that to the whole country. But
even if you're thinking about things
like housing at the FTC, we saw markets
that were monopolized, including in
areas like cement, uh, where you had,
you know, local building, uh, efforts
that were really thwarted by some of
those efforts to, you know, make sure
materials were actually affordable. So,
I think those are all challenges that we
really need to grapple with.
Um several people today have talked
about uh the President Trump's um
removal of of Commissioner Slaughter and
Bedoya um from the FTC. Um obviously
these are being cont being contested in
court right now. Um but I'm curious
about your perspective on uh the
intervention and and sort of what
implications it might have for the
commission's autonomy going forward.
Yeah, I mean these firings were clearly
illegal. There's very clear law on the
books that says uh FTC commissioners can
only be removed for cause. there was no
cause even alleged here. Um, and I think
just more generally, you know, you can
have an academic debate about what the
law is and what the implications are for
presidential power. What's been most
disturbing to me is seeing already the
ramifications on the work itself. Uh,
just this week, we saw that one of the
cases we had filed last year against the
three big PBMs alleging that they had
engaged in illegal tactics that are
inflating the cost of insulin and other
drugs. that lawsuit has now been put on
pause indefinitely uh as a direct result
of these firings. So, you know, I worry
about what impact is going to have on
the work uh we've all been seeing. The
big tech CEOs in particular uh make
pilgrimages to the White House, to Mara
Lago. Uh these individuals and their
companies are currently defendants in
litigation brought by the government.
So, of course, there's also a question
about what it's going to mean there. Is
there a higher risk of some of these
companies getting sweetheart deals and
and cheap settlements? So, you know, I
think this is an area that we're going
to have to be very vigilant about. I
think more broadly, you know, we had
seen we have seen significant bipartisan
alignment uh when it comes to taking on
unchecked corporate power, especially
when it comes to technology markets. And
I do worry that this really strains that
and um you know hope to see uh my
colleagues reinstated quickly. Do you
sort of generally have any thoughts
about how we can facilitate more
bipartisan alignment on on these issues
or sort of like what the future of this
nent coalition might might look like?
Yeah. Yeah, I mean to my mind the
bipartisanship here stems from the fact
that the problem of unchecked monopoly
power is one that affects people across
all walks of life across all parts of
the country. Uh you know I got to do
trips to places like Ames Iowa and sit
down with farmers who would share how
extreme consolidation across agriculture
markets was making it difficult for them
to keep their farm operation afloat. uh
how restrictive repair policies were
making it difficult for them to repair
their own equipment in a timely way. Uh
would meet with people in Silicon Valley
hearing very similar concerns about
private gatekeepers there. And so I
think the more that we engage with the
facts and what's actually happening in
markets, I think that creates a real
organic way to recognize that people
again across the country, across
political affiliations are increasingly
recognizing how extreme concentration of
power in markets uh poses a real threat.
So after the launch of Deepseek R1, you
wrote an oped in the New York Times um
and you you said quote, "Deepsek is the
canary in the coal mine. It's a it's
warning us that when there isn't enough
competition, our tech industry goes
grows vulnerable to its Chinese rivals
threatening US geopolitical power in the
21st century. And you joined us at YC
last July to talk about the importance
of open source uh foundation models. And
this was when SP 1047 was being debated
uh Senator Scott Weiner's um AI safety
bill. I'm curious sort of given your
perspective on open source AI um you
know how do you view the role that that
dominant gatekeepers like Apple and
Google um might be playing in shaping
consumer access to to AI technology. I I
think it's troubling and if history is
any guide then we should worry that
these gatekeepers and the self-interest
that they have could mean that people
are going to be deprived of cutting edge
AI technologies and tools that could
really improve people's lives but that
may not be aligned with the interests of
the gatekeepers. uh you know I saw I I
um thought that the testimony that Gary
Tan gave yesterday and some of the
examples he gave around Siri uh were
quite compelling around you know why why
do we see such a lag here in terms of
the technological sophistication and so
um I think it's a it's a real concern
and and when I was at the FTC we made an
effort uh to make sure we were really
promoting uh open APIs uh focusing on
things like open weights uh in models
and recognizing the ways that
historically ly openness has been such
an important catalyst for turbocharging
innovation and making sure that
entrepreneurs um are able to really
focus on innovating in the areas where
they have the most value to add rather
than kind of making the infrastructure
be a basic obstacle and entry barrier.
So I hope that those are principles that
we can kind of continue to to pursue in
the AI space as well. Yeah, I guess it's
it's sort of interesting. Some people
have um pointed out the kind of apparent
contradiction of a country like China
being at the forefront in many ways of
of open source um AI while the US uh you
know obviously we have many sort of
closed source um models. What do you
make of that kind of apparent you know
contradiction or or difference just sort
of between the two the two models? Yeah,
I mean it's certainly interesting and
and look, I think we need to double down
on the historical approach that America
has taken which has been to make sure
that we are uh keeping our markets open
and competitive rather than opting for a
centrally planned economy that really uh
doesn't necessarily reward good ideas
and allow the best ideas to rise to the
top. Um, you know, uh, Frederick Hayek
wrote this famous essay about the
comparative advantages that a free
market system has over a centrally
planned economy. And he noted, for
example, that, um, the pricing system is
one that allows dispersed information
and dispersed knowledge to be
communicated in ways that in a centrally
planned system, you're never going to be
able to replicate because no one entity
kind of knows everything. And one of my
concerns is that when you have these
beoths, these like huge entities that
are just spanning all of these markets,
you really actually see the breakdown of
some of these basic free market tenants,
uh, where basic information that would
be communicated effectively and
efficiently in a free market system just
totally gets distorted. And so I I worry
a lot about this those distortions. Uh
we obviously have a whole set of
antitrust cases that are currently
pending uh including one against uh
Facebook at the FTC that is set to go to
trial in the coming weeks. Um you know
it'll be really important that we see
these litigations through that we get
good remedies. One thing that I continue
to worry about is the way that the
glacial pace of antitrust litigation can
mean that the remedy um you know really
needs to be forwardlooking so that we
are not just fixing the problems of
yesterday but actually making sure uh
that the problems are not being
replicated in these new markets. And so
I think that's going to be uh a really
important principle. It's a principle
that kind of exists in the law and we've
seen that some of the most effective
antitrust remedies in the past have
really been futurep proofed in that way.
Um, but I think it's going to be really
important for government agencies to be
making that case to the court and then
for judges um to really make sure that
we're not effectively allowing the
monopolist to benefit and profit from
years of lawbreaking and then just pay a
fine, you know, a decade later or even,
you know, make certain changes to their
business that are just affecting old
markets even as they're just replicating
those strategy in places like AI. So, I
think that's going to be an area to stay
very focused on. Um, I want to actually
see if there's any, you know, questions
from the audience. I think no one no one
has yet done this. Um, but if we have
like, you know, one or two, uh,
questions from the crowd, I think it
might be interesting to incorporate
those. Um, I guess I'll just I see a
hand in the back. Yeah.
Sorry, could you say that again?
Uh I've not seen that announcement. Uh
it'll make for an interesting uh
challenge and and question for uh
antitress agencies.
Yeah. Thank you so much for sharing.
Maybe this isn't entirely your space,
but I think this matters a lot.
that today is going to determine whether
smallies.
You mean in the context of AI or just
generally? Yeah, I mean this is a uh
literally a trillion dollar question
right now in terms of uh you know what
some of these uh larger firms that have
been able to build their models are able
to do. Um, you know, when I was at the
FTC, we heard a lot from, uh, people who
create for a living, be it authors, be
it graphic designers, uh, who were
really alarmed that, you know, one day
they woke up and saw that their life's
creation had just been ingested by these
models and they seemed to have no
recourse and suddenly these models were
spitting out, you know, sometimes text,
sometimes images that were competing
with their own products and had been fed
by their own products. And so I do think
that there is a basic question of
fairness here. Um this is also an issue
that's being litigated in the courts.
There are kind of few very prominent uh
cases including one brought by the New
York Times. Um there was actually just a
uh recent decision I believe in the
third circuit. Um uh basically allowing
uh one of these copyright cases to
proceed. And so it's a very timely
question. I do think that just at a
basic level of of not just fairness but
innovation, if we allow an ecosystem to
appropriate value from creators without
actually adequately compensating them or
really getting their consent, I worry
that that is going to dampen innovation
in the long term because what are going
to be the incentives to actually create
in the first place if you're not going
to be able to reap the rewards when
those creations and those investments
actually take off. And so I do worry
that beyond the kind of basic fairness
implications, there are going to be
major questions here about whether
creators are even going to have the
incentive to invest in creations and
whether we're going to see um stagnation
in that area if we don't get the market
questions right.
Hi, I'm Daniela Chzlo with Politico. Um
and I was hoping you could respond to
two news developments out today. One is
a report in the Financial Times that the
EU might limit the fines that it imposes
on Meta um and Apple. And the second one
was reports that Mark Zuckerberg was in
the White House today um days before his
FTC case goes to the court again. What
do you make of those two developments?
Yeah, I mean on the first I'll defer to
um folks in Europe to kind of weigh in
on on what the intricacies are there.
Um, on the second, I mean, I do think
that it's fairly troubling to see a
executive that's a, you know, heading up
a company that's a defendant in a major
lawsuit, um, be able to have such easy
access. And I think it just does raise
questions about, uh, are there going to
be certain benefits or value that is
conferred as a result of that access.
Um, you know, this is kind of the the
kind of iconic concern that the founders
had about why you need to create checks
and balances. And one of the reasons we
have our anti- monopoly laws was to make
sure we were safeguarding our government
and safeguarding our political system
from outsized economic power that could
then be used for political ends. And so
I think we are all watching those risks
and threats in real time. and it's going
to be a major test of the system to see
if we can withstand that.
Kind of closing out this conversation,
um are you gonna primary Chuck
Schumer? What what is next for you uh
now that now that uh you know now that
you are you know for now in the private
sector? Uh no, I I admire people who do
electoral politics, but it's not
something that I personally have a deep
desire to to do. Um, you know, I think
there's a lot of, uh, energy and
enthusiasm, especially among young
people, uh, to figure out, you know,
what is the next phase of all of this
look like and what does it mean to keep
building out this anti- monopoly
movement? And so, uh, that's what I'm
going to be focused on. Do you have a
final message to the kind of the
founders in the audience who are sort of
wondering, you know, what what this
stuff sort of means for them, um, the
builders? Yeah, I mean, I know DC can
sometimes seem like this foreign land or
even a different planet. Um, I'll just
say your engagement really matters. Um,
you know, when I had the privilege of of
being FTC chair, really prioritized uh
hearing from real market participants
and was always uh struck by just how
much you learn uh from people on the
ground who are kind of dealing with
these market realities day in day out
and it makes it so that our work is more
effective and more directly responsive
to the actual challenges out there. And
so I would just encourage people to uh
keep engaging uh with with policy
makers, with elected officials um
because it's it's incredibly important.
Great. Thank you so much for your time,
Lena. Thanks so much. Thank you.