Title: Context Engineering for Engineers
Video ID: 3jN77Aw7Utk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3jN77Aw7Utk
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-08-25T16:05:44Z
Duration: PT11M17S
Views: 14761
Likes: 473
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 321

Description:
Jeff Huber, founder of Chroma, shares why building with large language models isn’t just about prompts or RAG—it’s about context. He explains how deciding what goes into the context window shapes reliability, why performance drops with long inputs, and how careful filtering and compaction can make AI systems faster and more useful.

Chapters:
00:00 - Introduction to Context Engineering
00:26 - Understanding AI Systems as Programs
01:29 - The Concept of Context Engineering
02:02 - Building Reliab

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So tonight um I want to share some
thoughts about context engineering for
engineers this audience.
Um by way of context my name is Jeff and
I'm the founder of Chroma. Chroma for
those of you who don't know u builds a
search and retrieval database. Uh
numerous illustrious speakers have
shouted out Chroma. So thank you very
much. But let's get into some meat here.
Um, you know, one way that we think
about what really is happening inside of
an AI system is that it is ultimately
just a program. You have your
instruction set, the relevant
information and tools. You have your
user input, that's the part that
changes, and then you put it into this
magic box, and an output comes out the
other end. And yeah, this is just very
much a program. And though people may
want to sell this to you as uh a techno
machine god, um we believe it is
ultimately just software.
So I will assert uh Jake and I can get
into fisticuffs later on this, but I
will assert that context engineering is
a much better term than prompt
engineering or rag. I think there's a
lot of buzzwords that fly around in the
AI space and every week there's some new
AI thought boy with their head explode
emoji going crazy over some new
technique. you know, they tell you the
18 different kinds of rag that you need
to know about, just stop. Mute them.
Your life will be better. Um, and I
think as evidenced by a lot of the
things you've heard tonight, that's very
true. Um, what is context engineering?
It is quite simply deciding what's in
the context window. It's that simple.
That includes the prompt. That may
include retrieval depending on the use
case. Um but context engineering is the
right term I believe and I think it's
great because context engineering uh I
think uh implies the existence of
context engineers people whose jobs it
is to like make this really good. Maybe
even context engineering implies the
existence of a context engine. I'm not
going to talk about that tonight but you
can go home and and think about what
that might mean.
So really what is a lot of our shared
goal? Our shared goal is to build
reliable software. Um, this new software
has some new abilities and primitives
that prior software didn't that can be
pretty useful. We believe AI can be
useful if you give it the right context
and you know these systems ideally are
reliable, fast and cheap. Uh, I do
believe that in general we should all
take a make it work, make it fast, make
it cheap type approach and probably
today most people are still on stage
one. Uh, how do we make it reliable?
Okay, so why don't we just use long
context? Anthropic just announced a
couple days ago their million token
context limit model famously
uh there was a certain language model
lab that released a model that 10
million tokens. This is amazing. And
then you've seen these like you know
startups raise half a billion dollars
for 100 million billion infinite tokens.
Nice. Well, unfortunately that doesn't
work yet. Um and who knows? Maybe it'll
never work. Maybe it'll work next year.
We don't know yet. But as uh as the room
is full of engineers and builders, we
want to know what works today. Um so
Chroma put out this technical report um
about a month ago. Uh Kelly, who did a
lot of the work on this, is in the
audience. Shout out Kelly.
Yep. Um and uh yeah, this I think this
video now has done about 120,000 views
on YouTube. So it is doing pretty well.
And what we should demonstrated in this
technical report is this across simple
tasks that you think a human should do
pretty well. This is a task to repeat
back certain set of words model
performance uh as an input of token
length uh goes down precipitously. I it
is clipping off the bottom here but I'll
tell you I believe that the blue dot at
the far bottom right hand corner is
10,000 tokens. So actually model
performance uh I've heard a couple other
numbers referenced tonight 40% 170k
across some tasks seems like it's even
much much sooner than that. Um now of
course the way that usually the lab
substantiate these context windows being
useful is they'll tell you about needle
and a haststack. Needle and haystack is
solved across all the different token
dimensions. Great. Um but I think what
we want to point out to people is needle
in a hstack is a very easy task. Um, on
the screen I have an example of both a
needle and a haystack. Um, and you'll
notice that there's number one, the
model only has to pay attention to a
needle by definition. It doesn't have to
pay attention to lots of the context
window, only the needle. And then number
two, the reasoning power is basically
zero. Uh, I will read this out loud. The
question is, what was the best writing
advice I got from my college classmate?
The needle is the best writing advice I
got from my college classmate was to
write every week. So like you know
imagine the reasoning power required to
make that match is basically zero.
And what we ended up doing was plotting
a number of different tasks across these
dimensions of on the lefth hand axis uh
amount. So the amount of the context
window the model has to pay attention to
and on the bottom axis the difficulty or
the reasoning power required to do this
task well. Um and you'll notice needle
and a hack is in the bottom left
requires you to pay attention to a
needle. Zero reasoning power. But our
assertion is that most interesting
things people are doing with language
models today require either more context
or more reasoning or both. And actually
many uh agent tasks and even
summarization are much more difficult.
And so then it sort of begs the question
well how much of the model can you
actually use effectively? So we also uh
ran some tests on long meal and
demonstrated that very simply if you
were to give the model full context
versus focus context focus context in
this case is Oracle. So it's sort of
human curated. Um this is the numbers
for performance. So again massive gains
in performance by curating context. You
should curate your context. So broadly
speaking the goal of context engineering
is to number one find the relevant
information. Number two remove the
irrelevant information and then number
three optimize the relevant information.
And you could argue that for any given
turn of the model there's this problem
of out of all the information in the
universe what information should be in
the context window this time. And I I
have this model here that I call gather
and glean. Yes, it is an alliteration.
Yes, I did think about that for probably
30 minutes to get there. And the way
that I think makes sense to think about
this problem is for those of you who
have a machine learning background, this
will connect. If not, I'll explain
again. Stage one is you want to maximize
recall. You want to get all possible
relevant tokens or information even at
the risk of getting information that's
not relevant. And then stage two is
maximizing precision. you want to then
remove and call out and cut out all of
the irrelevant information so you're
just left with that pristine set of
highly relevant non-distracting
information. Um what we're seeing a lot
of developers do now on kind of the
retrieval side is this very uh this
interesting pipeline where the query
comes in from the user. You have an LLM
create functionally a query plan of like
okay based on this query I'm going to
use these tools. I'm going to search in
these ways. Maybe it creates 10
different search probes or 30 different
search probes across structured data SQL
queries APIs and tools unstructured data
like data in Chroma and it gets a big
pool of data. Um and then there's the
question of like well how do you glean
it down? And I'm going to get to that in
a second.
So again gathering it is not news to you
all but you know it could be structured
data unstructured data local file system
tools uh other kinds of tools like MCP
tools web search your chat conversation
history you know all these pools of data
may be relevant to the task the model
has at hand and then glean um so top k
on vector similarity I think you've seen
that mentioned before that's usually
people's first pass the next sort of
approach here people use commonly is
reciprocal rank fusion or RRF uh LTR
learning to rank as sort of an OG
information retrieval technique that's
implemented into elastic search and then
of course you have dedicated reranking
models also common and then increasingly
just LLMs believe it or not LLM
um this is a great meme uh and what I
what I think is quite interesting is
actually that more and more developers
that I talked to are they're they're
calling it cheating at search or brute
forcing search instead of trying to get
super fancy about it they're just using
more lang just use more intelligence
like spend more money on tokens. Um you
don't have to use state-of-the-art
models all the time. You can use small
fast cheap models and use a lot of them
and use a lot of them in parallel to
kind of help you with this curation and
gleaning stage.
All right. So now I wanted to spend a
little bit more time talking about
context engineering for agents. And of
course what is agents? Well, there's
there's a there's a loop happening here.
And so you know in a deep research agent
for example, you're not just doing this
gathering glean task once. you're doing
this gathering glean task many times
conceptually. Um you're doing it inside
of sub agents and the sub agents are
getting judged by the orchestrator and
they're going back and forth and you
know carving up the web and and finding
lots of relevant information. Um and so
of course this makes the stuff more
complicated and more interesting. And
you know notably um you now have the
addition of agent conversation and
history as a major factor in the context
window. When you're going back and forth
you're generating lots of information.
Uh, this was also alluded to a moment
ago, but prompt histories can be really,
really big. So, for example, this is a
GIF. I know it's a little bit blurry,
but this is an example from Swebench of
like the code and logs generated from
like one, you know, a couple turns of
Swebench. Like, as has been stated
before, you know, what human could
possibly parse this and make sense of it
is insanely large. And so, we really
found this quite interesting learning
actually when we were looking at the
ability of agents to learn from long
context. And we found one thing that was
quite notable which was that if you give
the agent access to past failure cases,
it helps improve agent performance. The
agent seems to be able to break out of
these like local minimas where it
commonly gets trapped and like move
forward. But it wasn't really a slam
dunk to give the agent access to prior
success cases. In fact, in many cases,
it seemed like the agent would slip into
a local minima and kind of just like
pattern match and get lazy like, "Oh,
you already gave me the answer. Thank
you. I'll just say that back." Um, and
so again, there's a lot of I think these
are not solved problems. I do not have
the answer to this problem for you
today. I wish I did. Um I think this is
why like it's important to create uh a
community around this idea of context
engineering so we can all solve these
problems together. Um and so you know as
has as been stated before compaction is
a really important point of leverage. Um
understanding you know that gift that I
showed you a moment ago that's going on
forever and ever and ever. Um how do you
distill down for the next turn of the
model compassion is so important. And
what we find is that like today's
approaches don't really work. Um the
difference again I apologize for that
it's clipped the difference between no
summary and the compaction coming out of
like open code for example is
negligible. So you can basically throw
away that compaction entirely and it's
only worse than uh using like the sort
of built-in compaction tool from open
code. Um but if you do a smarter a
smarter compaction with a better prompt
uh it can be much better.
All right well thank you very much for
listening. I'm Jeff uh and Mr. German.
[Music]