Title: Numeral: Building the Global Tax Platform
Video ID: 5jHWBQqiylo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5jHWBQqiylo
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-09-15T15:00:11Z
Duration: PT28M30S
Views: 2327
Likes: 55
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 977

Description:
Numeral is building the global tax platform — tackling one of the most complex and universal problems in business: sales tax and compliance. What started with e-commerce filing headaches has quickly expanded into a full solution for software companies and enterprises in 60+ countries. Along the way, Numeral has raised a Series A from Benchmark and become one of the fastest-growing companies from the YC W23 batch.

In this interview with YC General Partner Gustaf Alstromer, co-founder Sam Ross sh

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
Today I'm joined by Sam Ross from
Numeral. Uh me and Sam work together at
Airbnb and Sam started uh Numel in 2023
and did the winter 23 batch. I'm excited
to have him here. Welcome.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I remember when you first told me about
Numeir and you had the whole thing
figured out and it hasn't changed very
much until now. It's basically this the
same the same plan. you were uniquely
positioned to figure out this plan like
how did you know that sales tax sacks
specifically for e-commerce in the
beginning was a big problem.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of founders have
this like heroes journey of pivoting
through the batch and hitting head
against the wall and then finally
finding something. For us it was very
boring and like linear. we could we you
know I think I had known I wanted to do
a startup for for a while for for a
while but you know I really took my time
to you know until I um really landed an
idea that I had a ton of conviction on
and so it wasn't you know I didn't feel
like I was forcing myself into to
starting something so I think that
helped my background before this is um
I've been running bootstrap e-commerce
businesses and so you know I run a
jewelry business that did 30 plus
million in sales and have a I still own
a vitamin gummy shop that does north of
10 million a year and you know as a
bootstrap founder you kind of have to do
everything yourself. You know, you don't
have a big team you can delegate all the
work to. And so the thing I hated doing
the most was this very esoteric thing of
sales tax compliance where my small
businesses which were, you know, two,
three person teams were having to pay
and file and pay taxes in 40 odd states
in the US. And so I was personally
dealing with department of revenue,
Alabama, West Virginia, getting mail
from these states
>> like manually. You were like like what
happens?
>> We we use some software. Sure. So, yeah,
you what you have to do if you're
e-commerce and and in and SAS business
as well as you get to a certain scale is
yes, you you know, as a customer orders
from you, sales tax is is governed by
local jurisdictions and states. And so,
you're not dealing with the IRS. You
actually have to make sure on an order
you're collecting the right tax rates
and and uh remitting it to these
different states. You know, I used some
this the incumbent software, which I had
I can talk about that, but I had
horrible experience. So, that would
really inform my decision here was the
incumbent software was so bad. Yeah. I
was filing taxes in West Virginia. I was
on the phone with like department of
revenue West Virginia getting an
argument with some woman there about
some penalty waiver she needed to give
me.
>> Yeah. Everyone had to do this like
everyone who's does an e-commer business
basically have to do
>> as you get to a certain scale everyone
has to do it. So it wasn't a problem
historic, you know, in the past when I
was starting my businesses, you know, in
2017, I only had to worry about sales
tax in uh California where I was based.
But there was a Supreme Court decision
late 2018 that changed the changed the
rules. And after that, even if you don't
have employees or you don't have a
presence in a state, if you sell a
certain um amount of dollars into the
state, that's when you have to register.
So if you sell, you know, $100,000 or
200 orders into the state of Illinois,
now you're liable to go and and pay
taxes there. And it's very complex. So
in in Illinois, software is actually tax
exempt, so you don't have to worry about
it. But guess what? The city of Chicago
has their own rules and you sell X
dollars into Chicago, and you actually
have to register with Chicago itself.
And so there was all this, you know,
very specific complexity. And as a
founder, it was literally the last thing
I wanted to spend time on, right? It
wasn't growing my business. It wasn't g
wasn't giving me energy calling these
states and the leading software in the
market was from the early 2000s. It was
really almost doing going through the
sales process even was like a hostile
experience. It felt like there were a
lot of fear tactics. Yeah.
>> Why were those other softwares so bad?
>> So I think a couple things. I think one
is they were designed in a period before
this Supreme Court decision and so they
weren't really designed for SMBs.
They're really designed for like up
market and I think they're also
>> charging enterprises maybe charging
enterprise cost maybe.
>> Exactly. They're focus like they were
building for you know these big
corporate controllers and the software
was designed in the early 2000s. So
there's a sort of like a moment maybe
like 2011 2012 where you starting to
shift in terms of like the how software
is built but I think if was it built
before this era these things are built
on.net net and and just the user
experience like there just like the UX
patterns don't really make sense a lot
of time figured out and so this the
biggest competition this company could
be compet they're owned by private
equity they just aren't really building
software in a way you you would in 2025
so a lot of the things that we've had
that have given us success it's not
necessarily like groundbreaking
innovation it's it's like taking the
stuff and like delivering what you'd
expect from high quality software and
and and just like customer support and
all these basic functions if you do it
well often you can just win on
fundamentals
>> and you're you're one of the fastest
growing companies since the winter 23
NYC in YC. Would you say this is sort of
like the market is accelerating at the
same time like more people need this and
you got have really good software
compared to competitors like what would
you attribute to sort of like the
growth?
>> Yeah, good question. So I think yeah the
market's grow you always want to be
selling into a growing market and then I
think on ours too we just got you know
frankly lucky that yeah the that was you
know one big competition is company
Abalar there was another one in our
space called tax jar was acquired by
stripe and stripe decided not to you
just you know practically sunset the
product and so sometimes you get lucky
where yeah I think it's a common pattern
where the big players in the market get
acquired and then they just totally stop
innovating they cut costs they stop
investing and even go to market
functions things like this and that
creates an opening for you to innovate.
>> Your first two companies or couple
companies were successful like like by
by any standard like that's a great
great um results. However, this company
I think you had a different ambition on
those two companies. Tell us about that
and you told me very specifically about
that the first time we met. So, you
know, my background is, you know, we
used to work together at Airbnb and at a
certain point I was like burnt out of
San Francisco and like I want to just I
got out of like a fiveyear relationship
and I was like I just want to like
travel the world. Um but to do that this
is 2017 I you could you know there
wasn't a lot of jobs that were going to
hire me living in Tokyo or Rome, Italy
or somewhere like that. And so I needed
a way to pay pay the bills. And so I saw
the opportunity you know direct to
consumer businesses were were coming
were becoming a thing at the time. And I
saw that you could build these
businesses bootstrapped. And so that
meant I wouldn't have to report to
anyone. I didn't have a boss. I could
kind of work on my own schedule. And so,
you know, I realized for a few years I
think it was very like these kind of
cash flow positive businesses. But the
challenge for me always was, you know, a
lot of direct to consumer businesses
that you don't have the same retention
that you would would have in in many
like B2B or enterprise type of
businesses. And so I had one business
that like had a hu, you know, we did
tons of sales very quickly, a fast rise
and then a fast demise because there
there was no retention. And so that
always gave me some anxiety that even if
I was making a lot of like short-term
cash, like this could always go to zero
any day. And so I had a period where I
met my now current wife and I was like I
need to do I build something like house
shopping and think about children like I
need to build something more durable.
And at the same time too I miss building
software and I wanted the challenge of
building something something bigger. I
think I I was I was ready for it. I
think it's interesting though comparing
you have I had the experience building
businesses that are bootstrapped and you
build in a certain way you have to be
very scrappy so it's really hard on
those dimensions but other dimensions
you know you actually you don't
necessarily need to get to huge scale
like the the you know the total
addressable market you go after doesn't
necessarily have to be huge because uh
you don't have investors you don't you
don't necessarily need to become a
public company whereas if you're
building a venture-backed business the
expectation is you can build you know
a$10 billion plus business and so you're
always having to make sure is my market
big enough. The pressure is much higher.
>> Mhm. It was It sounded like it was a
very intentional decision. Probably a
lot of people watching this, they built
something that's more of a lifestyle
business and then they're like, I'm
thinking I should do something that is
much more ambitious. Like it sounds like
for you it was like intentional moment
for like yes, this is what I want to do.
>> Yeah, exactly. You know, I had thought
about starting um a ventureback startup
earlier in my career, but my first
startup I was I worked at was this
company Teespring, which had phenomenal
rise and like phenomenal downfall. And I
think I saw how really it was really
hard for the founders there. And so I
kind of gave me a little anxiety to go
and do the venture route because I knew
it was high pressure. And so for me, I
almost think of it almost like a
marriage in some ways. And you know,
it's like okay, I'm going to commit to
this. Maybe not you. I guess a marriage
is for life. This is maybe for like 15
20 years. But it's it's you really want
to make sure you have conviction. You
don't have other things in your life
that you want. It kind of forces you to
even like decision of where you live.
Like I've met many founders like they
don't want to live in San Francisco
anymore, but they can't they can't live
they can't leave because they're the
CEO, their business is based there. So
you really have to just make sure you're
committed to to it.
>> What did you have on the first day of
YC?
>> We had very little. We had no software.
Um probably almost no customers. You
know, our business we're doing sales tax
compliance. You know, we could execute
in in a way that was very uh do things
that don't scale and you know, hey, I'll
go file someone's taxes by hand before.
You know what to Yeah, I done it before.
We actually didn't necessarily know what
to do, but we figured out on the fly.
So, you know, we went and sold a couple
friends like, "Hey, we can do your sales
taxes for you." And we're like, "Oh,
shoot. How do we actually do this?" You
know, we had calling. So, we had to like
go and um you know, my co-founder was
like calling up I think it's like
remember DC, he was like on the phone
and how do I file the taxes here? And
so, we were just figuring out on the
fly. So, a lot of it was just you know,
sell sell what we didn't sell something
we didn't even have yet. Figure it out
on the fly. In our case, we were lucky
we could go and use Excel and you didn't
need software. We didn't even have a
dashboard till we had something like 20
plus customers. So I can go back and
find all these early emails of mine
where I'm like, "Oh, we're refactoring
our dashboard. Don't worry, it's coming
out soon." Like, but the um the
advantage we had is we actually had a
lot of customer growth compared to a lot
of other startups which were building
really interesting software but didn't
have anyone that was actually using it.
So it was sort of like a very demand
first um approach versus like a software
um supply first.
>> How do you figure out how to sell to the
first 20 people? You said friends was
the first one.
>> Yes. after that.
>> Yeah, we started with friends. We tried
to use our network and you know that ran
out pretty pretty pretty quickly. I
remember like I would try some cold
emailing. It worked really well for a
couple days, but I didn't know how to do
it right. So then everything started
going into spam and big jumps in growth
and then all of a sudden like weeks
where we couldn't figure it out because
there was all this like tactical
knowledge that I didn't have yet.
>> How do you think the batch the YC batch
winter 23 shaped the company and maybe
shaped you anyway?
>> When when you go to YC, you're just
around like some of the most ambitious
people on earth. And so again, I had
come from a background doing bootstrap
businesses. We initially incorporated
numeral as like an escort, meaning like
we weren't even sure if we wanted to
take investors. Maybe we'll like build a
bootstrap business here. You know,
everyone's trying to has some way higher
ambitions than you. And you realize
like, wow, maybe I'm just being like
smallrained here. And you know, you have
this kind of imposter syndrome. Like
there's nothing really stopping you from
building a really big business. It's not
that like a lot of these other CEOs are
are more talented or or smarter. They're
just more ambitious and like willing to
willing to take bigger swings. And so I
think being around that culture um for
me was really helpful.
>> Tell us about fundraising. Uh I remember
being on a much calls with you at the
end of end of the batch and you were
fundraising. Had you fundraised before?
>> I never fundraised before.
>> I know the fund why fundraising is
different than other fundraising but
like what are some learnings you have
from fundraising early on or maybe like
expectations that you had that turned to
be true or not true?
>> Yeah, good question. So I think we had
we had really good traction um at the
start and so we had came in expectations
like wow we're going to get like the
fanciest firms and it's just going to be
like overloaded with term sheets or or
safes and I think we ended up ended up
working out well. We got a lot of
offers, but it was it was certainly, you
know, I had to take hundreds of calls in
something like a 3 or 4 week period.
>> Lots of nos.
>> T most like 95% nos, right? And so I
think, you know, rejection is something
that I think humans are just like
maladapted for. And it's like it really
gets to you. At that point, I it was
like kind of postco, so I was still I
was working in my shed and I had like my
gym set up and I was just sitting on
like my gym mats just like staring off
into space for like 30 minutes. You
know, I was just so defeated because I
think it was hard too. You know, I'd
take like seven or eight uh pitches in a
day and then I go eat some dinner and
then my my actual work started, you
know, I had to go like talk to customers
and fulfill our product like starting at
like 7:00 or 8:00 p.m. You have to just
understand like what are the investors
looking at? What are their incentives?
How are they You really have to want to
get inside their brain. I think I
probably didn't necessarily understand
how they think well enough and maybe
there were some misconceptions there.
you think coming in, hey, I have this
fast growth. Like, hey, the the data is
going to speak for itself. But early
stages, the data doesn't really mean,
they don't care, but no one really cares
about the data. I mean, track maybe it's
consumer app traction, things help, but
at the seed stage, it's really about the
team, the market, and things like this
more so than than your traction. I
thought I could rely on my traction
more.
>> And for people listening here who are
like fundraised and got a bunch of nos,
like how how do you not get discouraged
and give up?
>> It's always going to be stressful and
hard. And so I think you just everyone
need you know some people it's it's like
for me I do running if I can find sauna
it's sauna it's you know it's just like
the stuff is uh the self-help stuff you
know I think it's it's easy to like uh
laugh about it or or think it's like
some low status thing to talk about but
in reality if you don't do that and
you're just working yourself like you're
just you're going to get some level of
burnout or or exhaustion and you know
there's a lot of people talk about
crunching or they work in you know crazy
hours and I think ultimately this thing
is a marathon and like really What wins
is just consistency, consistency of
practice and like can you out, you know,
I think working crazy hard for like two
years is probably much worse than
working slightly less hard but doing it
for 10 years, right? These things
compound and so I think you have to just
find what's sustainable for you.
>> One thing I'm always curious about with
uh YC companies is as they grow and how
big is your company now?
>> We're about 60 folks.
>> 60 folks. So how do you uh how do you
stay in touch with customers? Like how
do you specifically don't lose track of
what they think about the product or
think about the company? It's always a
battle. Um, for me is a couple things. I
think one is, you know, I can I'm always
trying to jump on sales calls where I
can. So, you know, whether it's a direct
intro to like often I'll get a direct
intro to me or even yesterday I was
talking to a team here who I saw they
booked a demo and you I didn't have to
jump on the call, but I'm like, "Oh, I
like I like this YC company. Let me just
join." And so, it's always I think just
helpful to either be on sales calls or
we use Gong like actually spend time
watching Gong recordings. will often
just log into intercom, which we use for
CX, and you just go and read some
tickets and it's it's really insightful.
So, I'm not necessarily directly
conversing, but I can see what they're
writing in. Um, and then invariably, you
know, when things go wrong, like
customers are going to email you as a
CEO what's going on. And so, you know, I
think I always invite customers that are
angry, like, please, I'm like, "Thank
you so much for emailing me. I much
rather you email me and like I can solve
this problem for you than just like go
to CX and I miss it." But, yeah, it's
always a challenge. I think staying
close to customers and you you it's
always super important. You want you
want to have that empathy is really
important.
>> You had the idea from a personal
experience. So you experienced a
problem, you're like this is a company
I'm going to go out and build. Like that
doesn't necessarily mean you have
product market fit. Uh just those two
things you had to like get the
validation from customers or customers
have to like there's probably a moment
where you're like okay now I know enough
about people that have the same problem.
Like when would you say that you're like
okay I know this is going to work. Let's
build build something big.
>> The biggest thing for me finding product
market fit I think especially consumer
you get a lot more data is like it's not
like when people tell you that they'll
use it. It's like, will they actually
like give you their credit card and give
you their money? And so, you know,
before we apply to YC, we have people
who are like willing to give us their
money and then we're like, oh, actually,
we actually need a few more months. And
so, but you want to make sure someone's
like not just going to like test it,
they're actually going to I mean, not
all cases, but for many pieces of
software, you want to make sure they'll
actually pay for it. And so, I think for
me, it was like, wow, people will
actually like pay for something that's
thousands of dollars a month. The other
thing that we saw product market fit is
every time we layered on a new go to
market channel whether it was you know
something like Google ads or it was yeah
like posting on social media like each
each incremental thing that we added
like worked to a degree a pretty good
degree and so I think that's how we knew
you had product market fit. It wasn't
like oh we just figured out how to mine
customers this way and just but it won't
last very long. It was kind of
everything that we layered on and like
things we would try different go to
market tactics we didn't even think we
had like this no this won't work and
when it does you're like wow that that's
how you know um there's there's a need
here
>> and then after the seed round you went
on to raise seriously from Benchmark
which is like one of the most famous
investors of all time um how did that
happen
>> yeah we went out and fundraised in the
middle of summer which is never a good
idea people are off on vacation that's
when you know a lot of VCs are they're
off in their their second home somewhere
you know for us it just that's how the
timing worked out We went out and I I
got fortunate to got introed one morning
to like the second day of fundraising to
Chaan, our now board member at
Benchmark. He booked he booked a meeting
like same day in the afternoon. Again, I
don't think it was necessarily anything
I did in particular. It was more like he
he like immediately within like, you
know, within a few minutes understood
what we were trying to build, understood
the market opportunity, you know, the
track, you know, we had really good
traction and so for him, I think checked
off boxes and it was immediately for him
kind of went into sell mode and and so
that was like a really um interesting
experience and um a lot of learning from
him just how to even sell.
>> You feel like you uh compared to seed
round had the leverage in this round?
>> Totally. Totally had the leverage. I
mean, look, benchmarks are very firm.
Like, they're not going to pay some
crazy exorbitant amount and things like
this, but I just think it felt it felt
very different, right? Because, you
know, once you get a term sheet from
someone or at least, you know, that
gives you leverage to go and and and
shop or push back on that VC to give you
more. And so, in our case, he was going
on vacation to like with his family to
like to like India like the week after.
It's like he I knew he needed wanted to
get the deal done. And so, you know, we
sort of just like set our terms and
we're like, "Hey, we'll we'll get it
done this week, like week one, if you
can meet us here." And we and we got
there. And so, yeah, it felt way better
than the seed round where it was like
four excruciating weeks. So, I think
it's it's either really really hard or
really really easy. It's it's never
really in the middle. One of the two
parties has the leverage there. And so,
I think yeah, if you feel like you have
no leverage, like it might even make
sense often just to like, hey, let's
pause. Let's get back to work if we can
and go out later. How do you think about
the future from now? Like it seems like
this can be extremely big.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, obviously very
ambitious. I think, you know, we started
with a very narrow idea to solve which
which was, you know, hey, we're going to
help e-commerce businesses with their
sales tax compliance in the US. You
know, I had this ideas. Yeah, there's
other countries. Yeah, there's other
markets. But we didn't really spend a
lot of time, you know, looking into it.
But um you know we after a number of
months we had a lot of friends that are
software businesses ask you know friends
of ours asking if we could help them
because again software is taxable in
about half the states and really early
on what we learned from a lot of
software businesses is you know if if
you're a software business you're
selling globally often on day on day one
especially consumer software um you have
customers in uh Kosovo in Kenya
everywhere and so what that means is
very early on you actually have to think
about what's called a lot of the
indirect tax or VAT like these you know
kind of uh anal things that are similar
to sales tax on a global scale
>> every European country has VAT
>> every European country has VAT and very
you know often like 20%. And the rules
are again different in each country. And
so what we realized is like to actually
if we want to actually build a product
for for software businesses, it can't
just be our US product. It has to be a
global product. And so that's something
we're really excited about is we're now
serving customers in 60 different
countries and we handle everything for
them, right? So we make sure we're
calculating the right amounts, getting
registered in Kenya somewhere like that,
go and actually do the ongoing filings.
And we feel that no one's built a true
global product that really handles
everything, calculations, registrations,
filings. And so for us um it makes us
feel really excited that we you know we
have we're not really worried about like
is the market big enough. It's really
most of our things that get us anxious
are really about like execution risk
like can we actually execute not is
there some big existential question
around like is the fundamental market
there.
>> Uh one topic I would love to talk about
is Airbnb. So um this is like a very
special time in my career like I spent
almost 5 years there. Uh we worked
together on the growth team uh which I
thought was an very special team at a
very special company. Uh at this event
here, a lot of founders are actually ex
Airbnb. So like the the Airbnb itself as
an organization like basically created a
bunch of new companies. What do you
remember about your time at Airbnb? Like
what was it like?
>> First of all, working at B was fun
because the product's like amazing and
so interesting. And so I think like the
baseline like energy and vibes,
everything were good. And I think it's
also when you work on a business that
has like global network effects, it just
makes everything easier and less
stressful. And and so I think just like
the general energy in the companies and
working at I think there was also a
certain like optimism of startups at at
that kind of period in the mid the
mid2010s. And so it's just a good
experience and there was also just
incredible talent density like you're
referring to. So I think if you can join
a company where there's just like that
level of talent density it's going to
you know pay in dividends for years.
Right. So I met you and that made it
much you know that made me excited to
join Airbn Y. I probably wouldn't be
here if I hadn't if I hadn't taken this
step at Airbnb.
>> Is there anything specific you remember
about your time at Airbnb?
>> The culture at Airbnb tended to be I
would say very collaborative and it was
a very safe space to work in and I loved
Airbnb it seemed like you know there was
really this sense of community there and
so I think yeah I think we tried to
definitely bring that into our team
where we really try to cultivate a sense
of community especially you know
especially in office in San Francisco.
And so I think that and then obviously,
you know, I think learning from folks
like Brian who, you know, he scrutinized
every single piece of software that went
out and it was really hands-on and never
removed himself from product, I thought
was always something to learn from
because this was like when eventually
the company's thousand, you know, 5,000
people and and anytime you you ship
product, it had to go through like
founder design review. And I think
that's something that we've always had
it at numeral, too. It's just you just
got to be so meticulous and detail
oriented and OCD about the product. Like
it's not that always the founder knows
the best, but I think the founder has
the most context. And so a minimum, you
know, I try to have a low ego around
some of these things, but you do want to
you do often have insights that are
valuable because like you I'm talking to
the sales team, I'm talking to customer
support and sometimes I can make
connections for for folks. Um, and so I
think just being really meticulous about
any product you ship. Um, I learned from
Airbnb.
>> When you apply to IC, actually there's
there's one more thing that happened
that you probably had not planned, which
is the advent of LLMs. And I am
imagining that they are very important
for your company and the last year and a
half has made it fun and easy easier to
build the software that you want to
build. Tell us about that.
>> Yeah, LMS have been, you know, really
huge impact to our business. Yeah, like
you said when we started the business,
you know, we it was a few months after
the initial kind of 3.5 moment. So we
had some ideas, you know, these again
incumbent softwares, we felt they were
very much building you a tool to solve
sales tax. And what we realized is like
I didn't want a tool, I wanted a
solution, a service. Because often what
we see customers doing is they hire you
know an accounting firm and that
accounting firm uses the sales tax
software and why do you need to have two
vendors to solve this boring compliance
problem and so early on our approach was
we see the AIS these LMS are coming at
the time wasn't a lot of infrastructure
but our feeling was let's do things that
don't scale let's really do hightouch
service so for example an early an early
feature we shipped is hey we'll scan all
of your physical mail you get from all
these different states and read on your
behalf And we were just like, you know,
we were just ourselves like reading tons
of pieces of mail. And then a certain
point I trained up some team to read the
mail. And then a certain point you we
had like two guys that were reading
their full-time job was reading
thousands of pieces of mail a week. And
we're like, wait, what's going on? Like
why like why haven't we automated this?
And so very simple problem like you scan
a letter from the government. There's
only there's a very fixed amount of
types of letters you can get. We can put
them into buckets. You can extract
different information from that and
create and create different workflows.
And so you're going to take something
that normally isn't you have to have
somebody either on your team or or
accounting firm that's reading
government mail and like going and
taking action on it. And this is just
something that's now completely
automated and offiscated away from for
for the customer. I think you're just
seeing you're going to see a trend a lot
of these SAS businesses where again
often you're building tools for
accountants or tools for lawyers and in
some cases it can actually just do the
whole job end to end. And the way the
software works is, you know, our
software isn't it's not really designed
for people to spend lots of time into
it. It's really more about how do we get
as much of this problem done for you as
possible. So you don't even have to
bother logging in. There's still work to
go to get there for sure. But I think
LLM's empower these kind of different
user experiences.
>> Tell me about your co-founder Matt. Like
how do you guys work together?
>> Uh Matt and I work very closely
together. You know, these these find
relationships are always challenging and
I think, you know, it's it's hard to
always see eye to eye on everything, but
for whatever like lucky reason, Matt and
I generally tend to tend to see eye to
eye pretty closely on things. I would
say broadly too, we probably need to get
cleaner division of labor, but we often,
you know, I think for me it feels like
um it's always someone who could be a
sounding board. Like he was out recently
for a week and it felt like I'd like
left my phone at home and like like
every things come up like I did. To me,
it's almost like a built-in therapist in
some ways, right? Where it's like you
see a thing like, "Am I crazy here? Am I
thinking about this right?" And we're
just kind of talking throughout the day
constantly. Um, and just and just
checking each other's work and and so we
tend to be, you know, I think everyone
has different relationships. Some I
think some folks maybe it works better
to have clean division of labor and you
meet up here and there. For us, I think
we we collaborate on decision-m
>> you were both co-founders of separate
companies before. He actually ran
another YC company, Pro Numeral. So I
guess you had founding experience that
you brought into this company.
>> Both had founding experience. Um you
know Matt was very early at Stripe and
very early at notion. And so those were
like two very intense cultures. Um I
feel like you know I'm learning a I've
learned a lot about like how Stripe
operates or how Notion operates from
Matt Right. So like Stripe had like
incredible documentation culture and
writing culture and and things like
this. And so um for me it's also just
valuable to you know kind of steal that
DNA as well and kind of graft that onto
the company. he learned directly from um
from the Coulson brothers and from
Ivan's out and so often he's like here
Patrick would do it this way or Ivan
would do it that way and it's it's
really helpful for me to get that that
that kind of um coaching.
>> What motivates you to keep running this
company when things are really hard or
motivates you and Matt to do this? I'm
sure there's going to be moments where
you've had moments where things were
really hard.
>> For me it's like a game running a
startup. You know, I grew up really
nerdy with like fantasy sports and you
you take some actions, you see what
happens and you get feedback loop and
and so for me it sort of feels like this
this like like a like a game and so
games get hard but I think there's
always a satisfaction that that you can
keep keep winning. And I think
ultimately there's no turning back and
so I think if you as long as you like
know you're committed like and you're
not questioning that like you can get
through the hard stuff. I think where it
gets hard is if you're like oh I could
quit or that option's there then I think
it makes it hard to stay. like you know
we're fully committed and so you don't
even you know often even when things are
hard you don't even question it just
because it is the default like hey I'm
I'm going be doing this for the next you
know 10 20 plus years and so it make
that makes it easier when like once
you're psychologically committed that
this is what I'm working on
>> if you were um watching this right now
you're 20 21 22 graduating college like
um what advice would you give yourself
about how to spend the next 5 10 years
of your life
>> it's hard to give advice to anyone
everyone's different I think you know I
I really like like my path was again was
worked at some startups, did some
bootstrap stuff, got a lot of like
travel out of the way, and then for me
it was very nice because I was like, I
don't have FOMO about doing some digital
nomad, doing some traveling. So, it
worked out well for me. And I think I've
seen some people where they just jump
into a startup in their early 20s and
then they see their friends having fun.
But at the same time, too, when you
start a company in your early 20s, you
have way more energy, like you don't
have to sleep as much. Um, my wife's
pregnant, you don't have these type of
thing. And so everyone's experience is
different, but for me, I think it was
important that I like got a lot of stuff
out of my system so that I could just be
clearheaded and just like and focused on
that. Again, I think the biggest thing
is like know what you're signing up for
and make sure if you have anything that
you want to get done before that, like
get it done before that, right? I I've
seen you laugh from the outside for like
two and a half years. It's been really
really impressive. like it's like
honestly like um so cool to see like
everything you said in the beginning on
that first time we we talked about the
market and the problem like kind of turn
out to be true. It's really cool.
>> Thank you. Yeah, it was um I feel
fortunate. I I had some friends that are
like they known me for the last few
years like selling jewelry online these
funny things. They're like are you
actually going to like build a serious
business here? And but we are and I
think again it's been helpful even for
YC just the framing that like hey you
need to have this level of ambition like
don't think small and so um it's been so
fun to get to work with you again. And
um it's been um incredible.
>> I really enjoyed it.
>> Thanks you for joining.
>> Thank you. It was so fun.
[Music]