Video ID: 6g8qRhCI8AU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6g8qRhCI8AU
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 375
============================================================

I'm excited to welcome today Thomas
Wolf, the co-founder and chief science
officer of Hugging Face. We're here
today at beautiful San Diego for the
Europe's 2025 conference. So, let's get
started. Thomas, you had a very unusual
career path before you became the
founder of one of the best open source
AI companies. You studied originally
physics, then even did law and then
started uh hugging face. Tell us about
how that journey shaped
eventually hugging face.
>> Yeah, I mean even in physics. So I
studied I was at Berkeley. I was working
on laser fusion interaction in in some
of the team I became the team that did
the fusion experiments liver and then I
worked on super connecting material. So
even the physics part had multiple life.
I guess one of the thing for me was
always to try to work with people I
wanted to work with even more than what
I was specifically working on. So that
was one of the defining moments
and then I just think life is too short
to do just one thing right. So once you
once you once you did once you do one
thing for six years like so I did PhD
post and I was like I want to do
something else. I really love writing. I
was like I I'm very interested in law
why not switching? So I switched to
became a lawyer. Very different type of
things like your time you have a you
have a an amount you know your time cost
$300 like you start counting the hours
totally the opposite of PhD where you
spend your hours on like nothing or like
falling rabbit holes for two days or
something like that. So very different.
I think each of these kind of touch me
taught me something in retrospect like
like like science is this this idea that
you can go really deep in one topic and
you can actually explore these things to
build. low is this idea that you for me
was this idea that my time is valuable
and I should have signed it very well
and then and then hugging face was kind
of by uh by accident. I I fell in
entrepreneurship kind of like I needed a
job in the US basically at that time. So
this company was being created which was
a game company and I joined and I just
started this exploration deep learning
that became this opens library that went
viral and then we decided to pivot the
company around this open source library
and then we kind of found our mission
along the way that building this idea
that community opensource open science
there's kind of a mutual win-win that's
possible in the AI world instead of just
racing and there is this idea that
distribution of power is actually
extremely powerful
and and power catalyzing ecosystem
instead of just cannibalizing them which
is what you try to do. We try to be this
platform on top of it people can build
billion dollars company I think is very
very uh exciting.
>> That's very cool. I mean following this
you've been one of the first proponents
of really open research
as opposed to the efforts that the big
labs do. They keep it all private.
What do you think are some of the things
that the open-source community does a
lot better to push AI forward? What are
the strengths and also what are some of
the limitations?
>> Yeah, I think open source is probably
the best thing that computer science
brought to humanity. It was created
really by you know this like couple of
like deep hardcore computer science
people against a lot of other
possibility. Um I think this is even
something that I want to see applied in
in much more fields of research. I think
there's many advantage. Uh there is
obviously the collaboration aspect which
is like if something is open source in
particular code you can try to tweak it
and like the way AI research is is
progressing is still like something take
this model and try to change positional
embedding of things. So you need
something to start from. If every day if
every time you need to reinvent the
whole model because everything is closed
it's just much lower. So it it catalyze
accelerate progress but then more than
that I think it it's allowed to explore
many areas. So just before the interview
we're talking about interactive world
model and gaming and how gaming can re
be reinventing. The only way to really
you know be able to do that or one of
the way at least is you take a very good
pre-trained model for instance an image
and you just add some interactivity
component and that's a very quick way to
actually explore you know alternative
use that maybe the person who trained
the model didn't even thought about
right so there is this kind of
opening of possibility like the model is
created it's a very strong base you
basically people have distilled in it
like a 100 million hours of GPU view and
data and you can use that as a very
powerful starting point to explore new
use cases and if you don't have access
to the model you've much more limited
right just like TGPT you can basically
use it for what OpenAI intended you to
use it but if I want to use it outside
of the training domain I don't know like
very
DSL specific DSL they didn't train of
doesn't work basically so the only
option is to have access to this and
tweak it so I think It's really vital
for exploration, creativity and and I
think creativity like entrepreneur
entrepreneurial creativity as well.
Yeah.
>> So one of the things now following on on
this to the audience that are watching
here a bunch of founders and builders.
You've seen many people build on top of
all these open-source models on hugging
face. It can be easy to get a cool demo
quickly,
>> but it's actually hard to get something
that actually passes the bar to build a
good product.
>> Yeah.
>> So, what do you think are the things
that the audience should think of?
Things that look good but don't
necessarily translate into real products
for for users.
>> I mean, to be honest, I think it's the
same with closed model. So most of the
company right when you want to build
your product it most of the time you
won't fall exactly squarely in this like
good example where JGPT works and what
happens so they start building the
scaffolding all the time and say oh we
need to pre-process we need to be
careful about this edge case because now
doesn't work and so most of the company
I've seen building be on closour on top
of open source they they have to anyway
like in a way know their domain
knowledge their domain really well and
just like do kind of the
productionalization of this model
themselves and it involve lot
scaffolding and hopefully as the model
improve they're more reliable on a wider
range and you can even like some of
course you can sell your data and like
hope that the next generation of model
is going to be better because you get
then more data to fine tune but I think
we're still at this stage where it's
quite rare that you can take a model out
of the box and expect it just to work in
production environment
um the just the way you do it between
close source and open source is quite
different close source you mostly work
with this kind of scaffolding I think
and open source you have the option to
fine-tune maybe to train it and of
course the the associated drawback is
that it's a non-trivial still like a
non-trivial I would say operation to do
so as a as a young startup where you're
just like three you have to know you
have to know if you want to allocate
some of your time to fine tune the model
or not and so I would say if if it's a
core thing like like this interactive
world model whatever you're fine tuning
is a core thing because the feature
doesn't even exist right but in any case
you probably also want to to scaffold or
or use I mean more and more by the way
this uh fine-tuning I think is something
that you can you can find framework that
help actually do like tinker like a
couple of new company emerging that try
to help you do that so probably it's
something you won't have to to fully do
inhouse but yeah I think in any case
there is no super shortcut from demo to
production it's still a painful process
but as part of the mode and the
knowledge and like what you're building
is also the pain also I mean that once
you made it work you actually solve
something non-trivial and that's where
your company value lie
>> so talking about pain
>> you've been very good at delivering at
hugging face these cutting edge research
ideas and turn them into actually widely
used tools and API especially with your
role less the chief science officer.
What is the hardest part about turning
turning research into real products? I
mean, we talked about pain. What what
are some of the nuts and bolts of how to
how do you get the best out of your
teams and ship these products?
>> I mean, in practice, I'm chief science,
but what I really see myself more in
terms of open source. So when I created
transformer data set was kind of a chief
product officer because this is kind of
a product and your clients is basically
the open source community and they're
very difficult to please as clients
because everything is free so they want
actually the best. It's very easy for
them to move from one to the other
framework if they have to. So you really
have to uh think a lot and I I think for
me the key thing I've always tried to
work a lot on is um I think there's
probably two and they're both equally
important. The first one is the kind of
on boarding experience which is your
first experience with a library.
The number of abstraction you will have
to learn to be able to master it. the
like clarity like the the distance from
I download this library to I run the
first kind of ex non-trivial example of
what I want to do which is this example
where you're kind of wow you're like
this is something I was not able to do
before I had this library this should be
an extremely pleasant experience in a
way like just like you talk about this
unboxing it's a bit the equivalent of
unboxing a product so you want people
when they come when they start the Apple
experience
>> it should be extremely obvious like the
the abstraction you have you should they
should be almost tangible and they look
obvious to you. You should have very few
abstraction because the more you have
you each new abstraction you impose your
user to learn is like a friction point.
So this is very important and the only
way to get this to work is I think to
keep before you release or after before
each time you add a feature to put
yourself in the in the shoes of someone
who is trying your library for the first
time has no idea what are your abraction
don't want to read the doc because no
user of any software want to read the
documentation so uh it shouldn't even
have to write the documentation so
everything should look really obvious.
And it's it's getting harder and harder
as you know your library more and more
because you're you know you start to to
to not have this fresh mind. So I think
getting this fresh mind and so every
time I prepare for release in the past I
was always keep reiterating on this
first step. I install I try this first
thing. Does it look obvious? I install I
try this first thing. So that's the
first one. And then the second one is is
where you put your level of abstraction.
And there's always a cursor between um
how is easy to use, how much control you
give and how complex it is. And this
cursor is something extremely hard to
pinpoint really well. And I feel I feel
like the only way is to try it a lot
yourself on many use case and see where
if you get this balance between
flexibility, intuitiveness, right? Uh
there's a lot of taste here. I think
there's a lot of design and I think a
good open source library overall is
something that's uh extremely design
opinionated.
>> Now to close it off, imagine we get to
the point which probably should happen
at some point. The capabilities of
open-source AI models matches those of
the closed ones. So what should the
world update about the priors of how AI
innovation is done because so much
funding goes into the private labs right
how would the world change
>> yeah maybe my take would be that I don't
think this is so far off and I I feel
like we had regularly this year this
kind of challenging on the closest model
yeah it started I mean the 2025 started
with deepseek at the very beginning of
the year saying boom and was the first
moment the world realized oh there's
this open source AI what is that and
it's actually competitive more recently
Kimmy Kimmy was also like really close
to the state-of-the-art or not so far um
I would say yeah for me the prior is
that
there is still probably uh I mean
there's still value in training model I
think and for sure this is something
that will keep we keep continue pushing
frontier but more and more I think the
value and uh and that's also the
direction of many frontier companies
value will be the interaction the app
layer with this model so the model is
something but basically chipd is very
interesting because the interaction
friction is very low because it's a
product that really works and even
entropic has this type of aspect so this
user interface and how you use the model
in application or um application that
exists on your application is I think
where the value will really lie. So
right now the interesting thing is that
the the foundation model labs are also
also attacking this but that's something
you can attack without training models.
So that's there's a lot of room for
startups there to do amazing things
>> which is awesome news for the audience.
So what I'm hearing is that there's just
so much more value to unlock at the
application layer for models. If we're
really now neck and neck in terms of
foundation model performance,
>> a lot of the cool things and value that
exists is building the application
stack.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is great for all the founders.
>> Yeah.
>> Great.
>> 100%.
>> Thank you so much for coming and
chatting with us, Thomas.
>> Thanks. It was a pleasure.