Title: How Warp Went From YC to a $60M Series B
Video ID: 80eZ7DjCGSo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=80eZ7DjCGSo
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2026-06-26T14:30:09Z
Duration: PT26M58S
Views: 7246
Likes: 129
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 767

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm excited to be joined here today by
Ayush, founder and CEO of Warp. Warp is
an AI native employee management
platform built for high-growth
companies. They work with over 1,000
customers and have processed over $600
million in payroll in the past year and
are on track to pass $2 million in the
next 12 months.
Warp did YC in winter 2023 and they just
announced their $60 million series B led
by Battery Ventures with participation
from Sapphire, Peak XV, and Shopify CEO
Toby Lutke, and former Stripe COO Claire
Hughes Johnson.
Today, we're going to talk about their
origin story and what it actually means
to be an AI native product and company.
Ayush, thanks so much for being here.
>> Pleasure to be here.
>> So, Ayush, I actually want to start um
by hearing a little bit about your
background and how you grew up cuz I
think you have a very unusual entry into
technology and startups. I find that
actually really inspiring story.
>> Yeah, I grew up in a really small town
in India and in a place where I didn't
know a single person who had gone to the
US. So, there's a fun sort of journey
and story there which the short version
basically is that I, growing up, I was
really into physics. So, as early as I
can remember, I was trying to borrow
textbooks from upperclassmen and I
remember um finding Richard Feynman's
lectures on physics, the the classic
three three volume
>> ones or the the whole the whole easy
peasy the full actual the actual Feynman
on physics.
>> Actual lectures, the the one he gave on
Berkeley which it was uh turned into
textbooks later on. Um
and
I, as I was growing up, I that was like
sort of I I really thought I would go on
to become a theoretical physicist and a
professor at one day. Um and then sort
of life came comes at you, you know, the
Indian middle class family expectations
and I was told that the only way to kind
of escape the middle class sort of fate
in life in India, where I was growing
up, is you have to become an engineer
and go to an IIT, which are these top
schools in India. And I was
doing really well, and I was on a
straight track to go to one of the top
three schools in India. And halfway
through that prep, I just completely
sort of pivoted and changed my mind and
sort of behind the backs of my parents
and family. There's a reason for that,
I'll get to in a second, but
I ended up applying to MIT, which is
where I knew Richard Feynman had went.
So, that's the connection. And um
fortunately, I sort of the way it worked
out, I got into MIT, I got into Columbia
to study computer science, math,
physics. So, I spent about 5 years back
at MIT specializing in machine learning.
But overall, I think like the fun kind
of statistics that I can share is I
think I'm the first person out of out of
a state in India that has about 250
million people to get into MIT for
undergrad. So, it was quite fun. That
was about 10 years ago, and now we're
here.
>> I remember before Warp, you were sort of
trying out different startup ideas, and
maybe I think I remember some of them in
the consumer space. So,
tell us a little bit about that. Like,
kind of how did you go about trying to
come up with the initial startup ideas,
and then
yeah, why the sort of like the pivot
from consumer to um
payroll and B2B?
>> Yeah. So, at first, you know, I was I
must have been 24, I think, when I was
really looking into what to do first.
And like most 24-year-olds do,
you try to start a social app.
Especially a couple years ago.
>> Um this is pre pre-AI, right?
>> Yeah, there was a lot of things like a
roommate finder, there's bill splitting,
like events.
>> All the tarpit ideas that Y Combinator
made five videos about, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Um but I think I just wanted to build a
thing that I found interesting, or like
I would have used. And so, I got sort of
into building this app. It was really
fun for a couple months, and we had an
interesting community, and people
joining it. It allowed me to get started
and just make the leap of like we're
just going to build something and see
what happens. But at the same time I
think very quickly it became clear that
it wouldn't become a really big company.
And that's when we sort of had this fork
as like, okay, um me and then the early
team members that we had at the time, uh
Adam who's our CTO, we just sit sat down
and we're like, okay, what are all the
problems that we have faced in the in
the past and in doing this that we could
come up with. So kind of really went
down and kind of did this very
low-pressure exercise of what are all
the problems we've actually run into
that we think we'd want to solve for
ourselves. And one of the things that we
kept coming back to was um in starting
the previous thing I actually had to set
up like a company, a C corporation, and
try to pay some people. And I just
remember one of the days that I spent at
the guy had all these fires going on in
the company and then on top of that I
had to um figure out how to make like a
New York withholding and Department of
Labor's account. Um and it was one of
the most frustrating things I ever spent
my time on. I was like, there's no way
nobody I has come tried to completely
automate this. And uh I think the early
background I had coming from machine
learning and this is right like 2022-23
when LLMs and agents were just about to
take off and I think it was sort of
interesting to consider what if we apply
AI and LLMs towards this and
could we automate this in a way that
nobody has before? And that's the start
of the work.
>> How did you think about that as a
problem? Like how excited were you to
work on that problem I guess? Like you I
think part of the reason why I think
especially young technical founders
start on sort of consumer ideas is
because they the things they want to use
and they're excited and um
and attention-grabbing. Um
how did you like what motivated you to
want to solve this particular problem on
it on surface it might not be as um
obviously interesting.
>> I think in some ways I was motivated to
start it because it is unsexy.
And Paul Graham of course has this
really foundational essay on Schlep
Blindness. And I I remember thinking
about that that so many of these
problems hide in plain sight and nobody
really tries to attack them because they
seem really messy, complex, and unsexy
at the start. And I think the classic
example being the Collisons with Stripe.
Nobody was really sort of like finding
it sexy to figure out all the edge cases
with million banking APIs that were very
janky at the time.
But it needed to be solved and I think
so one motivation was simply that this
seems like the kind of problem that is
very messy, hairy, and not sexy on the
surface. But counterpart of that, I
think the more we learned about it, the
more we went a little bit looking into
it, we found other people who had run
into the same problem. So it's like,
okay, we're not the only person that is
thinking that this is really bad, the
current state of the world here. And
two, we saw a path to using that towards
building a really big platform for all
things employment management. And that
was sort of the controversial idea at
the time is that we could actually use
this multi-state complexity, taxes, deep
compliance workflows towards building
that entire platform.
>> You're entering a pretty competitive
space. Like lots of there's legacy
payrolls, there's recentish startups
that have done well. Um
That's what the making it easy to run
payroll in multiple states was the
initial wedge.
How did you know that that was like
going to be a sufficiently like deep
wedge?
>> So I I have a funny story here. When
we were thinking of applying to YC, I
think I had DM'd you actually and you
encouraged us to apply.
>> I didn't even I didn't remember that at
all. That's
>> Yeah, yeah. It's it's been a while,
right?
But and and you said, yeah, definitely
apply. So wrote an application, then we
were invited for an interview. And it
was the first batch that Garry Tan had
come into YC. And so I I hop on this
interview and there's five people on
that Zoom call on the other side
including you, Gary, and a couple of
other partners. And I remember the next
10 12 minutes were just like brutal.
Really like I was I felt like I was
being grinded on the spot. And that's
maybe the typical experience, but I
really felt that. And
one of the big questions exactly was
this like how big can you really use
this wedge to kind of grow
from here? And is it really a true sort
of problem in which that you can kind of
find enough of foothold on? And um
at the time, I think it was a bit of a
hypothesis on our part that like this is
a reasonable wedge into this broader
segment. And looking back, I think in
some ways we were got a little bit
lucky, I think. But the the sort of like
the
the calculated part of that hypothesis
was that
all the companies were multi-state very
earlier on as opposed to just a few
years ago before COVID, for example,
where that was much rarer. So, the trend
line was just going up, right? The
complexity
um
was exploding. And number two, um we
realized something, kind of a
non-obvious thing that YC has funded
some sales tax startups, and I think
there's a parallel version of this
problem in sales tax. But uh it's
actually much worse when you look at
payroll taxes because unlike sales tax
where there's usually these generous
thresholds for when you are beholden to
those requirements, like you have to
reach a certain amount of sales that's
quite high, or you have to like enough
enough sales or enough customers in the
jurisdiction. But in payroll, you just
need one person. You just need to hire
one person in one jurisdiction, and you
have to comply with the entire tax
jurisdiction apparatus. So, that kind of
thing, it just means like the moment you
are scaling company, you just have one
person. And combined with thousands of
tax jurisdictions, that complexity
really ex- explodes very quickly. So,
those two things I think it ended up
working in our favor that it became
enough of a wedge at the right time to
kind of use that and also apply LLMs and
agents to something that traditional
software couldn't touch.
>> So, as a company's involved and the
vision's involved, like you're you
describe yourself now as AI native
employee management cuz you do more than
just payroll, but um
what does that mean exactly? Kind of
let's talk about that for just like the
product. Like what does it actually mean
to be an AI native product?
>> I think one big realization we've had is
that one, we have to build a whole
platform and it became very clear to us
that as our customers were in many cases
like early on we had signed up a lot of
startups cuz they tend to be early
adopters.
They were going through the exact like
compliance multi-state problems
and they didn't have full like HR or
legal or accounting teams internally
that would try and maybe DIY that stuff.
So,
those early customers, they sort of
pushed us as they were growing
themselves to just gave us the direction
of okay,
I want as we're going from like five to
10 to 50 to 100 to 200, they they kind
of gave us the road map of what exactly
they would need at these different
stages of those companies and
they wanted Warp to do all of it. So, it
became clear to us that we needed to do
more than just initial payroll,
especially if we wanted to serve these
scaling high-growth companies throughout
their entire
>> life cycle.
>> And two, I think the bigger maybe
realization was we have to build a
product and a platform and the
architecture in a very AI native agent
native way such that all the work here
that we're doing starting with this very
like deep tax compliance workflows
can all be performed by an agent. And
that's the kind of I think efficiency
gain that we're really focused on is
if you're a high-growth company and
today we serve tons of really fast
growing AI native startups and customers
like Serval, Blend AI, Graphtile,
Reducto, and many many of which are
really cool YC companies, of course, but
also traditional high growth companies,
mid-market, and now some enterprise
customers as well. And I think the
pattern that we continue to see is these
customers, they are not interested in
linearly scaling their people ops, HR
ops, finance teams as their company is
scaling. And that's where I think we
want to be the entire platform for these
customers that allows them to do that.
>> So, as like, you know, you're you're
very involved in product and as you're
building the product, just again, help
people understand
when you're thinking about building like
these new sort of units or product
units, what is it and what does it mean
to sort of do that in like an AI native
way? Like what maybe like give us like
what's like what's like the the on the
one hand, here's kind of the AI native
way to approach building like a tax
compliance, and here's like the the
regular way to do it. And help us
understand the diff.
>> Great question. So,
a traditional way of building an HR tech
company that has compliance requirements
baked in, um that you have to solve for
all your customers, was purely by head
count. And so, one of the things you
notice is if you look at our legacy HR
incumbents, um if you look at their head
count and where their head count is,
often, um it's very surprising that like
30 to 40% of their head count goes in
functions like support, tax compliance,
operations, um accounting, legal. And
this is relatively similar between all
the last generation HR tech companies.
Um in contrast, Warp, uh we serve now
over 1,000 customers. We process over
600,000 in payroll already, growing
quickly. We touch every single tax
jurisdiction that exists in America, and
there's over 1,000, uh without going
into the super locality municipalities.
Um all 50 states, and we have, up until
recently we had only one one and a half
tax person, one full-time, one
part-time. And now we've hired the
second full-time tax person, more
because we're anticipating the future
growth, but I think that's sort of tells
you and kind of points the picture of
how I think we're able to build a
different kind of company, not just a
different product, cuz I think it's a
very different structure of the company
itself if you can use AI to automate
these previously really messy things
that software couldn't touch. Um and
that's why we get really excited about
it.
>> For someone starting like an AI-native
company,
um you know, the advantage you have
against incumbents is
it's like green field. Like you can you
can sort of
build a new set of primitives and have
you one for like the world that we live
in today. On On the other hand, like
incumbents in any space, they they build
up a lot like institutional knowledge,
have been working with the customers for
a long time. Like a bunch of those the
people there do have like sort of like
experience and expertise. Like how do
you think about sort of your advantages
and disadvantages maybe as sort of an a
new um a new entrant in a space using
sort of like um
AI-native as the as the angle?
>> I think that net net,
I believe that with AI,
it's in favor of
technical founders.
And what I mean by that is if you looked
at the last era, like pre-AI, sort of
the the late-stage SaaS, where it felt
like the the terminal state of software
was this like SaaS and mega SaaS
software. It had gotten quite boring in
some ways. I don't think I would have
started a company in that era
necessarily in this direction.
And in that time, I think the advantages
were really towards like mega
distribution, sales-oriented
founders. And you kind of see that in
the backgrounds of those companies that
got started. And I think today, it in
really with AI, it really shifted the
power sort of the balance where younger,
more technical founders with deep
technical knowledge of the frontier,
they can sort of see where this is
headed and they don't have these ideas
and kind of like how things are supposed
to be. They can kind of shed those older
norms and kind of build something that
new. And I do think that is net net
where this is headed right now. But at
the same time, I think to your point,
like the incumbents with distribution
and look lots of these channels and
partners that exist. And I think it is
one of those situations where it's a
classic will the incumbent adopt this
new technology in in this platform shift
before the the new entrants figure out
how to become the next generation
entrants and big software companies. And
I think that as as a startup founder,
my belief in this space is that it is
very hard to retrofit AI on top and just
kind of layer these sort of thin
chatbots on top of existing architecture
and existing customer bases and install
bases. And in some ways I think the
market's recognizing that. I think if
you look at work something like Workday,
which is the
the last generation mega enterprise
company in our space, it's down 60-70%
from their current top from their recent
highs. And
I I think
that to me is under appreciated right
now. Something else that
with in general for talking about AI and
its impact on startups that gets
mentioned a lot is this concept of
systems of record. This idea that
you know, you mentioned so Workday is an
example late stage SaaS company.
It feels like the belief right now is
that at least consensus conventional
wisdom
is a lot of SaaS is not defensible
against AI disruption that there just
won't be any need for it. That systems
of record will be defensible. That they
they just have real moats against
agents doing all the work in this AI
future. I think what would be classified
as a system of record. Um maybe just
explain to us like what does that
actually mean? When people talk about a
system of record, what is that? And why
is that sort of theoretically defensible
against um sort of future where AI
agents are removing the need for
software?
>> So, a system of record
is basically a database where there's
some amount of semantic mapping to words
a process that the that business uses.
And so, in in very simple terms, storing
values,
knowing for sure that the values are
true,
being able to see those histories and
logs and all these things that everybody
in a company can agree on. That's a
system of record.
>> Shared truth.
>> Shared truth. That's a great way to put
it. In the the classic example, of
course, is Salesforce where um it is the
shared truth for our business for all
things that touch sales processes. So,
your CRM
is is in many ways like I think um we we
actually
quick anecdote, we we started and tried
out some AI native platforms
for our CRM in the early days, but as
soon as we started growing the sales
team and went aggressive on that after a
series A, the head of sales was like,
"We got to get on Salesforce." Because
we are missing out all these 20
integrations to all these tools, right?
Very very classic. I think like many
companies have gone through that. I I do
think that
there are
different systems of records have
different degrees of like how quickly
how defensible they are. And so far, I
found that like actually Salesforce CRMs
are actually quite defensible.
But in general, I I think what's
interesting is um
we
it there's a bit of a race where the AI
native upstarts
can they become the next generation
system of records faster than the
current incumbent system of records can
layer on AI on top of their current
systems.
>> Thanks Aaron and then but like do you
have any sense of kind of what what does
that what's the next generation system
of record like why is that going to be
different why won't it be sort of you
know
essentially just a database with some
semantic mapping on top of it?
>> The reason I think company like Workday
is really down and suffering is because
the worry is that they are at at risk of
becoming a database-only company and in
not not in a good sense where like yes
they are ClickHouse for example is a
lovely database company growing really
quickly and so on but more so that it's
a dumb data store that agents from
external parties just access to do the
work. And then if that's the case all
the value moves to the layer that's
orchestrating the work with agents. So I
think the next layer that we are excited
about building is is effectively what is
the
in systems of intelligence not just
systems of record where agents can
natively act on the underlying database
with that shared truth in mind with
proper guardrails workflows
permissioning controls but it all has to
sort of map out in a way that I think
the underlying system of record combined
with the agents is where I think the
interesting stuff is going to happen and
what will be defensible cuz I I there's
an interesting chart I think Mentlify
for example was talking about this is a
cool company that most of the API docs
are now being read by agents and I fully
believe that I think most of the
internal systems and like system of
records will be swarmed by these agents.
>> I think it was a couple of weeks ago
announced that like you know total agent
traffic like a total web traffic from
agents surpassed human web traffic for
the first time.
>> And I think we've yet to see true
enterprises into enterprise software
become
like that flipping is yet to happen, I
think, but it will happen and I think
what Warp wants to do is build that
version that's super powerful, capable
system of record platform that is
on day by day one from day one built
with intelligence in mind.
>> Make something agents want.
>> Yeah.
>> Basically the mantra around here. Okay,
so let's talk a little bit about the
series B. You just raised a big round,
60 million dollars. It happened really
quickly actually, right? So tell us
what did Battery see that made them move
with like such high conviction and uh
make such a big bet on you?
>> Well, ultimately you'd have to ask
Battery, but
I think the from where I see it,
we ended up getting preempted. This was
just less than 10 months after our
series A.
I think interesting shift happened in
the last couple of months where
it we went from not thinking about what
does the AI native future here look like
to
sort of appreciating this that if you
look at the true enterprise software
categories like for example CRM, there's
number of AI native challengers.
Some are growing really quickly. If you
look at something like ITSM, Serval was
now a customer
is doing really well and growing quickly
and couple of other companies. And ERP,
there's Relay Campfire which is a YC
company as well, but I think ultimately
one of the last categories remaining
there where there isn't a clear sense of
what comes after or like these a true AI
native challenger is AI native HCM. And
I think that's where Warp comes in and I
I do think that the reason the round
happened really quickly. Yes, we've been
shipping a lot. We've built out a really
cool platform
and our customer growth has been
amazing. We're signing some awesome
customers, but I think when it comes to
investors, I do think these tend
sort of there's a little bit of that
narrative flip that happens in certain
times where
it goes from very very like far-fetched
to us like you can see that maybe this
is the future and I think that people
sort of feeling that a little bit more.
My that's my guess of why it happened
very quickly.
>> You've got a bunch of money now, so what
what you plan to do with it? What kind
of
what can you do now that you couldn't do
before and then what are some of the
things you're personally most excited
about on the product roadmap for Warp?
>> So now that we have 60 million
and more actually from most of the funds
we had from our series A as well, we
decided to raise a little bit of a
bigger round because
I think this next phase of where we're
about to head, there's two really big
and important things we have to
accomplish. Number one is we have to
build an incredibly engineered, really
powerful and still very usable,
delightful platform
for all things employee management,
which means there's multiple product
lines, there's IT, there's benefits
brokerage, we became fully licensed
countrywide to broker healthcare,
medical, dental, vision, 401Ks, life
insurance, etc.
We have built out our own device
management software, one of the only
we're besides Rippling, one of the only
companies that has done that in-house
ourselves. We have built out global
contractor products
offer letters, traditional HRIS things
and so on, right? So there's quite a bit
of breadth in the platform and we have
to keep building those with all the
integrations to other softwares and ERPs
and things like that, but in parallel,
we also have to build the agents and the
infrastructure for AI to natively act on
all of it, on all employee data that's
in Warp. And so that means the the most
capable agent harness
that can reliably and with user trust
act on their very sensitive tax,
payroll, employee data. And so those two
things, we don't see them as being able
to pick one or the other. I think we
just have to do both. And that's where
um I think this bigger round helps us to
kind of catapult into the building the
engineering team, the platform, the
product for that next phase.
>> Any so specific things in that with
within all of that that you're you're
personally really excited about?
>> We're about to launch in the next couple
of weeks um full GA release of the Warp
customer agent. And what that means is
um historically we tended to use AI in
the back as background agents a lot to
automate workflows on taxes and
compliance and filings uh and
restrictions a lot in the background,
but we've built enough infrastructure
now to give all of that to the
customer's hand as well. And so, what I
mean by that is anything that you can do
in Warp uh by clicking buttons uh
period, you can now do with the agent.
So, the advantage of that is going to be
to be able to very easily and very
efficiently create these more complex
workflows such as like when an employee
joins in New York, uh
add them to this uh healthcare plan,
create add them to this sick leave
policy that is New York compliant, and
provision their devices and apps, and um
make sure that they complete the New
York security training, and so on and so
forth, right? So, all of that you can
just script that via natural language,
not some like really complicated
code-like builder, which historically is
how this was done. And then uh be able
to do that very very very efficiently
without having to know how to code. And
I think that is where I'm personally
very excited about. I think we're seeing
some interesting use cases emerge from
our top customers already. So, very
excited to do that for all our customers
soon.
>> Great. Okay. Well, Ayush, I think that's
what we have time for today.
Congratulations again on raising the
round, and I'm really excited to see
where Warp goes from here.
>> It's been great to have you as a partner
and YC on this journey. So, um thank you
so much for having me.
>> Mhm.