Title: How Onebrief Is Fixing Military Planning With Software
Video ID: _-ARm9FTFAM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-ARm9FTFAM
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-05-13T14:00:52Z
Duration: PT24M37S
Views: 3457
Likes: 78
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 666

Description:
Grant Demaree was a junior US Army officer watching military planners pass around Word docs and PowerPoints during the 2014 Ebola crisis when he realized something: the military’s most critical decisions were being made with outdated tools and slow, legacy workflows.

That insight led him to build Onebrief—a platform now used by military headquarters worldwide to dramatically accelerate their planning. But to get there, he had to figure out how to get the military to actually buy software.

Gran

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Grant Demory is a former US Army officer
and the co-founder of One Brief from YC
Summer 21 batch. They're creating
software to help dramatically speed up
military planning. What we're doing is
on a on a per dollar basis the most
important thing happening in defense
tech in the world. Today, we're going to
talk with him about what he's learned
selling software to what some might
consider the most complicated, hard to
crack customer in the world, the United
States military.
Thanks for joining us today. Thank you
very much Brad. So what is one brief? So
we make software for operational
military planning. Every military
headquarters around the world from a
giant combatant command like US
Indopacific command down to something
small like a battalion. Um, almost
everything they do has a has a plan that
could be very detailed like how do we
defend Taiwan or you know something uh a
bit more casual like what are we going
to do tomorrow and the process it it
takes a long time. It drives almost
every military decision and if we can
make it faster and smarter well it has a
huge effect on how well the military
does. And so you guys have been at this
for a few years now and you've started
to achieve like pretty epic scale. Um
what can you tell us about like how big
the company's got? um valuation,
revenue, size of the team. To put it in
perspective for everybody today, our our
software is in use in quite a lot of of
military headquarters worldwide. Um
we're growing usage uh 2.75x quarter
over quarter right now. Um which
translates to about a 57x
um year-over-year growth rate. And uh
we're at about 144 people um and we just
raised a series C at a uh 650 million
valuation. How have people in the past
or up to this point done military
planning from a technical standpoint?
Well, almost all word in PowerPoint.
There's actually been a huge number of
attempts to make it not be Word and
PowerPoint, but uh those products are
pretty sticky. So, if I'm trying to make
like a a a giant military plan, I'll
often make hundreds of slides um and
I'll, you know, email them back and
forth across every contributor, which,
you know, could be 12 different
headquarters and I'll ultimately produce
this uh large word document called an
operations order or in in other
situations a base plan. Tell us a bit
about how it works. What's the actual
user experience like for people using
one brief? The overall idea is how fast
can a team across a bunch of different
military commands um get to a plan
whether short range or long range or a
mediating crisis make it be really fast.
We built this system around cards, which
is probably really familiar to you. And
you're using a bunch of reusable cards
where a card might be, you know, a fact
about the situation, um, might represent
a military unit, might represent a task,
and you're using these cards to build
all your outputs, like a sync matrix, a
operations order, which is the the word
document, or maps that present these
cards on the map, or all sorts of other
outputs that are using the same the same
blocks of data. And when you change one,
it it updates, you know, all the others
and, you know, you're embedding portions
of one document in another. So, the
largest type of military plan is is
called an O plan. Um, these are for the
the really big ones. Think Defense of
Europe. Um, those take about two years
to write if everything goes perfectly.
You bring one brief into this equation.
What's uh you know, are we able to
compress these times down from two
years? Is it a much simpler document?
What's the benefit? The one I'm most
proud of, um, there was a course of
action that came out of a major plan
against a core US adversary and the, uh,
the planners are presenting it to the
chief of staff at a major one brief
customer. The chief of staff says, "No,
no, no. This course of action is
terrible. It's not what you're going to
do. You need to go change it." And that
normally would create like several weeks
of work. In three hours, they had
changed the entire thing. New map
overlays, new sync matrix, new written
base plan, new slides, presented it,
commander signs it, no further changes.
That was using one brief. So where did
one brief start and what were you doing
at the time? I was a uh US Army officer.
Um had the idea as a very junior
lieutenant straight out of West Point. I
was in Liberia part of the 2014 Ebola
epidemic. This was my first military
experience which actually turned out to
be to be really good to like see this
with fresh eyes. I was actually working
Ebola data out of the Ministry of
Health, but it was attached to their J5,
which is responsible for military
planning. And that meant I I got to see
how military planning at a large
headquarters worked, which uh of course
I thought like, ah, this is so cool. I'm
I'm really happy to see behind the
curtain. But I ultimately felt that it
could have been a lot more effective
than it was where watching people like
pass powerpoints around the headquarters
and eventually make decisions months
later than we could have made the
decisions. So, okay, this is this is
really not optimal. I was in another
headquarters a couple years later. Um,
this time I I think with Gore informed
perspective, having seen this once, I
was a little bit more senior. Um, this
was CJTFY, the theater headquarters um,
out of Baghdad for Iraq and and Syria
against ISIS. And I saw other
operational planning teams there and
said, well, this is this is a pattern.
Um, this happens in a lot of places.
this is, you know, the core driver of
military decisions. And I think fixing
military decisions is is the most
important thing we can do in defense
tech. So, I'm gonna get out of the army
and uh try to fix that. One thing that I
think is interesting here is uh for
people that maybe have an idea, you have
this genesis of an idea of something
that I could build and maybe sell and
and provide back to the military. I
think it's pretty intimidating to a lot
of folks. Maybe there's other people out
there that have had ideas like this, but
they don't even know where to begin.
talk to us a bit about how you
understood or mapped the opportunity
such that um it wasn't just like selling
to a giant monolith. We're going to sell
to the army. Um I think it's actually a
lot more nuanced than that and there's
many different ways that you can kind of
work your way into the into the um the
defense ecosystem. Yeah. So uh basically
every military and especially the US
military is a huge number of different
organizations that control their own
budgets and and these are often like you
know eight or nine and and sometimes 10
figure uh you know budgets for these
individual headquarters and in the US
there's there's about 1,200 commands
that that need our product. Basically
what this means is that you don't at
least initially have to sell to DoD as
one giant customer. You can actually
sell to the individual command that most
needs your product which is so much
faster and easier and keeps you a lot
closer to the end user. How many people
at a given headquarters do you usually
have to actually present to or convince?
Well, our first deal is one. Um I now
these are you know pretty standard
enterprise sales where there's you know
a committee of people who need to you
know be persuaded and stakeholders but I
don't think that's helpful to say a very
early stage founder doing defense tech
we were able to get the initial sale on
a government purchase card so there's
these basically credit card I mean they
are credit cards that uh a lot of
military officers and NCOs have um if
their organization has something of a
slush fund and they can buy things up to
depending on the place sometimes it's up
to $25,000 and just buy it. Very little
process, very little contracting. And
it's a bit of a hack to avoid the
contracting process because if you're
coming in and and don't know how to do
contracting, um you can just get in the
headquarters. So it it actually helped
us a lot by closing a small sale in, you
know, relatively little time just to get
physically in the headquarters and be
exposed to users. Yeah, that's a great
hack. We're always telling YC founders
um to find some simpler way to validate
that people will actually pay for the
product that they're building. And so
instead of going through a multi-month
procurement, you're able to get one
person to make a decision and put it on
a card. When you first set out to start
working on this, you decided, okay, I'm
going to go build a company. What was
the first thing that you did to kind of
figure out what exactly you needed to
build and what the customers actually
wanted from you? We started with the
with the the wrong answer which is
started just building. I don't totally
regret it because it's how I got my
co-founder who turned out to be like
truly excellent. I started making these
like clickable mockups of here's what I
think the product needs to look like and
then actually like wrote an early
version of the product in mat lab
because it's the only thing I knew and
it was something of a show of
seriousness of like hey we we really
want to build this thing that's going to
fix uh you know military planning. Talk
to me about the user interviews for a
minute like who are you reaching out to?
We basically reached out to every
stakeholder in military operational
planning. It was about 200 interviews
and uh well it was it was really really
good and uh we were pretty wrong to
think we didn't need to do that. How did
you get early users for this thing? I
know you guys did a bunch of like things
that don't scale to get people into your
early software. Tell us about some of
those. So the problem we had to solve is
we couldn't get access to real users.
This is before I had any contract. This
is before we were in the room with in a
military headquarters. There were just
too many barriers to get any usage and
see how this worked. This is like the
first year or so after you started
working on this. That's right. What we
ended up doing is cold LinkedIn
messaging a bunch of uh military
planners, usually majors through
colonels, and said, "Come to my all day
Saturday exercise. We'll pay you, but
you need to be here for eight hours."
Okay? And we put together this like
pretty robust military scenario. Like I'
I'd spend like almost a hundred hours
writing these scenarios. And I'd put
them into two teams and say, "You six
are going to solve this military
scenario in the old way with Word and
PowerPoint and you six are a team and
you're going to solve it in this like
proto version of one brief and we're all
going to watch you and we're going to
make the product better." What kind of
feedback were you getting or what sort
of lessons were you learning from these
exercises? I imagine throwing these
people at your product in its early
stages was maybe a little scary and a
little sobering at times. So the
response was a lot better than we
thought. So we tried like a whole bunch
of go to market things already that were
they didn't work that well and this was
the first time where the response was
genuinely great where people were like I
am very excited can I introduce you to
people in my headquarters can I help you
okay so you did these 200 customer calls
you're doing these exercises with
planners how did you go from that to
actually getting your first proper
contract I had a phone call via a warm
intro um with this gentleman Captain
Dave Fields at US Pacific Fleet. And I
actually didn't know he was as big of a
deal as he was when I had the the phone
call. So I I told him what we were up to
and the first thing he says is, "I've
actually evaluated at least 10 attempts
to solve this problem. They've all been
terrible." And I could tell this was
like a you know, a sharp person who
really cared about it. And we ended up
chatting on like this first discovery
call for about two hours on the phone. I
think the the level of honesty about
like what we did and did not know was
pretty helpful. um in like building some
some real trust. But he came out of it
saying, "This is this is promising." And
I said, "Great. Can I embed in your
headquarters? I didn't want to just stay
there. I want to stay there for 3
months. I want to try a proto version of
our product on some of your operational
plans." And I was like, "Just put in a
government purchase card for some like
nominal amount of money." And he was
just like, "Okay, let's do it." What
else do you think might have been the
things that kind of persuaded him to
give you some extra time and to really
bet on you guys for this? I think there
were some creative parts of our approach
that weren't take the existing
government process and put it directly
into a product because we had this
presumption the existing process was was
bad and needed to change pretty
dramatically. Um, and we would build a
product around the future instead of the
past. You know, sometimes people can
just like detect a certain level of like
energy and determination where like, oh,
this is this is real. I think the ask of
can I embed and just get it done is a
more earnest ask than can you give me
money. How did that lead into an actual
contract eventually? So, I was away for
it was a little over 250 nights that
year, most of them to Pearl Harbor, um,
Hawaii. And we embedded around around
two plans. One was this uh large
exercise called Pacific Fury. It's like
one of the largest exercises in the
Navy. It's really important. Our product
was used for like a fraction of 1% of
it, but it was still real and it was
still the first time we've been used for
for anything real. And there was
actually like a pretty interesting
barrier to entry, which is a a theme in
defense. So, they can't use software
that doesn't have an authority to
operate, especially not for classified
work because like these are are secret
and top secret. What does authority to
operate mean? Uh authority to operate is
the accreditation that like lets you put
software on their internet. I see. How
does one get this? The first thing you
need is the contract. And the second
thing you need is to work through some
administrative steps to get approved.
There's actually like a lot of art to
it. Like there's ways you can do it that
will cost you many many millions and
take you many years. There's actually a
lot of defense tech companies that don't
have one after being in business for
more than 5 years. What we did initially
was just circumvent the problem. We knew
too little. We were too early to to
figure out atto. And I believe if we'd
tried at that stage, it would have been
this all-consuming problem that uh would
have meant that we never found product
market fit. So what we did to get around
the problem is um deploy our software on
one computer, my computer. All right.
and went to their their N6, which is
their word for IT department, and said,
I want to bring this one computer into
your skiff, which is their word for
secure facility that handles like top
secret and above information. And we
actually got to yes on that. But we got
to yes by agreeing that the Wi-Fi was
disabled, Bluetooth was disabled, and
the laptop would become Navy property to
dispose of and destroy when we were
done. That's amazing. So So let us do
it. And I was the only user. So we we
weren't at the point that any military
planner like wanted to change their
workflow and like use this thing which
would just be like a totally worse
experience anyway because it's not
connected to the network. You can't even
like email your results. You can't share
your results. It's collaborative
software with no collaborators, which
sounds terrible, but they like allowed
me to to be a planner. and we would like
hook the laptop via HDMI cable up to
their screens and they would have these
video teleconferences with all their
collaborating units and would share my
screen that way. It's like a it's a pile
of hacks all put together to to get you
guys into business with these folks and
it it ultimately like got us there. In a
sense, this was this is very
unimpressive because the revenue numbers
were like about 15,000 AR. So, we didn't
have much real revenue. We didn't have
any like real accreditation to use the
software, but we actually got to um both
an exercise complete and a major real
world con plan which is basically a
large military plan against a big
adversary. These are hundreds of pages
written entirely in like on my computer
in the proto version of one brief which
was like a a huge feather in our cap
like hey somebody got through a whole
con plan in your product. So now you've
got your first customer, you've got some
money in your pocket. What was like the
next big barrier that you guys had to
figure out after that point before you
could start really going after all these
customers and being aggressive on the
sales side? So we got a verbal on it
shortly before YC and it was signed
during um was our first real contract um
and this was with US Pacific Fleet and
to us it was a huge contract. It was
$322,000 and that was all like ARR
subscription revenue. We were so proud
of it. So the contracts actually came
with something that was way more
important than the money. Um which was
they sponsored us onto JWX which is the
network that the military uses for
secret and topsecret data. It's
basically an internet and having like a
real sponsorship on this was the key to
getting our software deployed in places
that users could like access it and use
it and collaborate. you know, we wanted,
you know, collaborative software that
would eventually become the way you run
every military staff. And you you got to
be on your networks to to do that. You
get this first deal, you're on the
network. What are the next steps then?
Do you go and just start doing a
fullcourt press to the other
headquarters? Were there a few specific
ones that you went after? We understood
that this was make or break, that we
would have no real usage until we were
live, that everything we wanted to do
was post going live. So, we were like
pretty motivated. There's an art to
helping the bureaucracy move fast at
something it already wants to do and I
think we like availed ourselves of that
art. Was there a moment at which you
felt like you'd finally kind of broken
through and you you were in and able to
just kind of run this like a more
traditional software company and not
have all these barriers in front of you?
Not really. even today the major
barriers to entry of um you know DoD
software and like there's there's really
only three barriers. So if you if you
beat all three then then it's just like
a commercial business. Um and the three
barriers are facilities clearance um
authority to operate and contracting.
And they never really go away because,
you know, now that we're at at this
certain scale, we we've like pretty um
grossly exceeded the scale that our
original infrastructure was was intended
for and now we're, you know, we're doing
another one. And we actually have yet
another ATO process for like our future
infrastructure planned after that. Being
good at the art of contracting quickly
uh really helps you in defense.
Facilities clearance kind of went away.
Once you have it, you have it. Um, but I
I guess what I mean there is if you know
what the three barriers are in defense
and you get good at overcoming the
barriers, then it's a little closer to a
commercial business. How did you figure
all this stuff out? Like you didn't know
about any of this stuff 5 years ago and
now you are the expert in it. Like what
how did you go about learning all this?
It it almost helped me not to know how
difficult some of those things were
going to be because I couldn't be
distracted from them. I think we were
properly focused on just get to product
market fit. If we can get a product that
every military staff really wants to
use, um, we'll be able to figure out the
rest. How, if at all, are you guys today
at one brief thinking about AI? Are you
using it personally to be more
productive? Are you guys using it
internally? Are you thinking about
adding it into the product in some way?
Inside the product, basically two
buckets. Uh bucket one we call the
mundane utility bucket and that's the
stuff that's live today. So the goal of
the product is make military staffs fast
and efficient. If you can get a military
command to a a decision faster, you
basically help them win the war. Um so
any little automation of mundane parts
of the military operational planning
process, I think there's huge numbers of
automations available. The second bucket
is I think more exciting. Um so the
second bucket is very special military
and the second bucket is about automated
course of action. People have been
trying really hard for a long time to
automate the course of action which is
basically the meat of a plan the like
how do you defend Taiwan? How do you do
the specifics of operation X? And we
want to automate that and we think we're
finally at a point where we can
ultimately where we want to get people
is um you know AI generate a course of
action that are faster and smarter than
any human could come up with. You're
obviously talking about AI with folks on
the other side with your customers. What
what's your sense of how the military is
thinking about AI and using it and like
uh anxieties, excitements? What's your
view on how they're thinking about
applying this? I mean, I think there's a
lot more excitement than anxiety. I'm
very careful to have every conversation
like oriented around outcomes and what
the product will do for you and like
make sure that the value pitch doesn't
have the word AI in it. I think that's
important because if you get AI in the
pitch too early, it becomes look at my
cool technology rather than look at my
business outcome. I think the the
military is very excited about AI but a
little bit skeptical of being sold snake
oil because they probably are sold snake
oil like pretty pretty often. So I I try
to you know establish trust around the
core product around what we've already
accomplished and then around like the
uses of AI that are currently live and
working and delivering value. You've
hired dozens dozens and dozens of
people. You've expanded. You've signed
many more contracts.
What advice, if any, would you want to
give to yourself when you were setting
out to do this? We could have moved a
lot faster if we had known which things
were the real bottlenecks. So, at no
time was I working on a thing where I
was like, I don't think this is the most
important thing to work on right now. I
was just wrong about what the most
important was. If I'd known that the
exercise thing was going to work, we
could have done it with a product that
we'd built after one month. And in
reality, we did it with a product that
we built for two years. Same for getting
on uh cypernnet and jwix. That one's a
little harder because I don't know how
like my past self would have figured
that out without a lot of trial and
error. But just knowing this is a really
big deal. You're going to have to find
hacky ways to get to it. And the sooner
you get there, like there is no product
market fit before atto in the military.
So if you don't work atto fast enough,
you're you're in trouble. What's next
for One Brief? Ultimately, where we want
to end up is to be the way that you run
a military staff from battalions up to
the joint staff for the the US and our
allies around the world. We want to make
these staffs lightning fast. Something
changes in the world and you know, you
you're able to immediately react. You
have an instant plan. We want to make
them require fewer people. I think it's
kind of insane to have a headquarters of
a thousand people. I think you should
have much smaller headquarters, you
know, heavily, you know, armed with the
the right tech tools to get there. We're
well investing pretty heavily in core
product um leveraging a network effect
and use that to get usage to grow
quickly and use that to get everybody to
use it. So founder motivation is the
single biggest determinant of success
we've seen here at YC. We can control
for all sorts of things but if a founder
is not really in it to win it, it's not
going to happen. Why are you so keed up
and passionate about one brief? I think
what we're doing is on a on a per dollar
basis the most important thing happening
in defense tech in the world. What I
mean here is it's very expensive to
scale hardware across the military. It
solves a real problem. We do need
drones, definitely need submarines, but
the military is often bottlenecked by
decisions. Um I think that was a huge
cause of what happened in the global war
on terror. there's a giant gain like
almost a win the war level gain in you
know Taiwan, South China Sea, Korea,
Europe, Iran over having much faster
like superhuman smart military
decisions. For one thing, we're we're
doing that. And uh for another thing, we
think we can do it very very cheaply
relative to say submarines where once
you built software at once, you can
scale it to every battalion, every
brigade all the way up to all the joint
staffs for allies around the world and
effectively have, you know, one piece of
software that drives almost every
military operational decision worldwide.
Well, Grant, thank you so much for
coming in today and talking about all
this with us. It's been great. Thanks,
Brad.
[Music]