Video ID: _y7siiS-V5A
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_y7siiS-V5A
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1012
============================================================

I'm here with Matt and Eric from
trigger.dev who recently announced their
series A from Standard Capital. And
today we're going to spend a bit of time
talking about their time in YC, their
product, and where they think software
is headed.
Hey guys, welcome. Hey, good to see you.
Thanks for having us. Guys, lots to talk
about, but before we get into any of
that, maybe just start by describing
what trigger.dev is. Yeah, so it's a way
to basically add AI agents to your
product. Um, so you use our SDK and you
create agents and you add them to your
existing products. Um, and we will like
execute them for you and run them
reliably.
That makes a lot of sense, but it it's
fairly different from what I remember
you pitching when you joined YC in 2023.
Uh, maybe let's let's start by just
talking about the first versions of that
idea when you applied to YC. Yeah, so we
we actually pivoted pre-YC, but we we
launched the first version of
trigger.dev I think on like February the
1st, so like quite early in the batch.
Um, and it was an async background jobs
framework. So, if you want to run work
in the background, um, we would like do
that for you. Although we pitched it as
Zapier for developers and it was sort of
the the meme at the time was like there
was three or four different things that
were Zapier for developers and we were
sort of the first one to like capture
that, but um, yeah, we had a big Hacker
News launch that went really well.
>> that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
And uh, you guys came in with the Zapier
for developers. Uh, you got into YC. I
remember being really impressed with
your sense of design. Like it was pretty
clear looking at your website uh, that
you were A, you had a really good sense
for what developers would get excited
about, which is I think why you did so
well on Hacker News, but everything just
looked uh, like it was done with care.
Um,
where did that come from?
That's a good question. I I
uh, we there are actually four
co-founders, um, and Dan and James are
like really good at UX and design. It
might be the Britishness, maybe?
Could be. Could be.
>> Ive kind of thing? Johnny Ive, yeah.
Yeah, I guess we really value design. We
think the best developer tools actually
care about design. And when we say
design, I'm not talking just visual
design. I also think that like developer
experience is actually about design.
Like designing the experience so that
it's easy to succeed. Mhm.
Um and we spend And probably the hardest
conversations we have
um around the product are like how to
design this like specific SDK function
and make it so that it's very, very hard
for developers to like fail when they
use it.
>> Mhm.
Um so we're very, very careful about
that.
Um I remember during the batch how much
time you spent specifically on just just
the landing page and trying to trying to
communicate what Trigger did. You had
this
uh you had this like code snippet on the
landing page. It was the first thing you
saw when when you opened when you opened
it up and you spent a long time trying
to I I think highlight specific sections
and um that was that was the hardest I
had seen anybody think about the first 5
seconds that a developer has
uh learning about your tool. Maybe we
spent too much time on it.
But yeah, the the code snippet thing is
it's still there. Like we we sort of I
always hate going to someone's like a
developer website and like you have to
scroll so scroll and there's no code. I
just want to see the code. Like like
tell me what the code looks like. Cuz
that's sort of like what I that's how I
get into the product, right? That's how
I see like, "Oh, is this something I
want to use?" It's like, "What does the
code look like?" Is it going to be very
complicated? Is it going to be very
simple? And I actually think that's sort
of like code-first approach, like that
was one of our big things. Even though
you're you know, you're talking about
design, but like it really it is like we
thought of the code that we wanted to
users to write sort of first and then we
sort of worried about like how do we
actually get it all to work?
>> So, you started with a with a sort of
Zapier for developers
um and uh you had as I recall like a a
great time in the batch. You raised
money coming out of the batch. Uh the
idea has obviously changed a lot since
then. Uh maybe
talk a bit about how it evolved over
time. Like what did you learn that
informed the direction you ended up
taking things? Yeah, so I think the
first use cases because we were kind of
positioned as this like Zapier for
developer things were kind of what I
would call back office um things. So,
things like internal teams were building
tools using us. Uh they were like
replacing what Zapier is good for.
>> Mhm. Um but we pretty quickly realized
that the best use cases were where
people were actually like baking us into
their products. Mhm. Um
and so version two of uh Trigger, which
we released like a couple of month a few
months after the batch, um was more
focused on that. So, it was more about
adding
uh async tasks to your existing product.
So, less back office use case, more
embedded in your product. So, what's an
example of of kind of the the back
office background task you had in mind
when you designed the first version? And
and and what's an example of a baking it
straight into the product Yeah. use
case? So, back office stuff would be
like you're automating stuff with if
it's for for developers for like
automating GitHub, um maybe doing some
marketing use cases. So, it's like the
it's the sales. Yeah, it's like biz ops
and sales and marketing. The stuff that
like a lot of people use Zapier for um
and like N 8 N and things like that.
And then baking into your product, it's
more that you um you are actually
executing code that's part of your
product.
>> doing something for your users. You
know, your user has done something and
now you want to do something sort of in
the background asynchronously like
process a document or
um you know, encode a video or do
something like that. It's like so it's
it's in the hot path of your like app
that provides value directly to your
users. Not providing value to your team.
Fair enough.
>> Yeah. You You've basically given
developers a really simple way to spin
up a background process and get
something done.
>> Yeah, and run it through queues and make
sure, you know, things are reliable and
retry and item potent and all that sort
of thing, yeah. That makes That makes a
lot of sense.
>> And I think because there's there was
this shift to serverless
um over the previous like 10 years, um
that stuff became a lot harder.
Um like it's really good at doing
short-lived like request-response um
stuff, but not very good for
long-running tasks. And so it kind of
left like a big gap. Um
and that's what we were filling,
basically.
>> How well was this adopted, right? Like
were you Were you starting to grow at
this at this point? It was It did okay.
>> okay. It did okay, but it definitely
wasn't like product-market fit. Um Fair
enough. And so
and I think partly it's because it just
wasn't solving the problem that well.
Huh. Like we There was definitely like
demand, but we So I think the market was
there, but the product didn't really
match. And I think two really important
things changed. Uh one was that uh AI
started to take off. Um and it just so
happens that async tasks are a
background async tasks are very, very
useful for AI. And then the other thing
is that we realized that our solution
wasn't very good, and it wasn't very
good because it involved you writing
still quite messy code. Um and we
decided to actually start executing
code. Um and that was version three of
the product, which we released in uh
June 2024.
Yeah, summer 2024. Um and that's when
stuff started to really take off.
>> So it sounds like version two,
you gave developers an SDK, but they
were still executing these background
jobs on their infrastructure. And in
version three, you offloaded the the
execution entirely to your
infrastructure.
>> Yeah. Yeah. We actually did a poll when
we were doing version two. And I asked,
you know, our customers like, where is
the code executing? Are we executing it
or are you executing it? I think 60%
thought we were executing it. So, like,
they already thought we were doing it.
Yeah.
So, we're like, maybe we should do it,
you know.
Uh it's it's a I was I was going to ask
if you had trouble convincing developers
to trust you to handle this execution.
But what it sounds like is they already
thought you were doing it.
>> There there was definitely like a
There was a subset of people who were
who did like that model and understood
it.
>> Yes. And and then when we switched, they
we were like, yeah, there's you go pick
these other people who sort of do that
use case for you. But almost everyone
else like that's what they wanted. They
they they wanted it to actually run for
a very long time and and have us execute
it and manage it and not do it
themselves. Makes sense. So, version
one, just recounting here, version one
was Zapier for developers. Version two
was an SDK for for doing what felt like
an asynchronous background job. Version
three was was just an SDK for doing
actually an asynchronous background job.
>> Yeah, it was the SDK, the platform, and
the infrastructure, and the And so, you
launched that. Is do we have product
market fit yet? Uh Yeah, pretty much
straight away.
>> Okay. Um like we're growing super
strongly month over month. Like, revenue
is just going up and like that's been
the story ever since, basically. Okay,
so you've you launched version three and
you just immediately see developers
starting to pick this up and using it.
Are you making money at this point? We
We Initially, it was like a beta and we
weren't charging, but then like a couple
of months later we started charging for
it. Um and
yeah, we the revenue growth was like
plus 30% every at least every single
month for like a for a a long time it
was that much.
>> Wow. Wow. Um you're an open source
product.
Has that has there Has it been a
challenge? Like Was figuring out the
business model and and how to actually
make money a challenge here?
Not really, because
because we're running compute and most
developers don't want to actually think
about infrastructure that much. We just
have a cloud offering. I guess your
whole product the pitch is you don't
have to think about infrastructure.
>> Yeah.
I think there are a lot of interesting
questions
around what is included in the
open-source project and what isn't. Um
and
I think this is a debate that lots of
open-source founders have.
Yes, I hear a lot. Where did you land on
that? At the moment So, we're Apache 2
open-source, so we're like very
permissive and pretty much everything is
in the open-source product at the
moment. Um Yeah, the only thing that's
not in the open-source is sort of Well,
how do you actually like manage all the
servers and spin them up and like we're
like like actually get the all the
pieces in place. That's like the whole
Kubernetes layer, you
>> Understood. Yes.
>> that sort of stuff isn't isn't quite
open. Although, we have a Kubernetes
Helm chart and people can run it, but
it's
it's hard to scale it really well,
basically. Interesting. So, so and maybe
can you give us an example here just
again to make this concrete? Like what
was What were some of these early use
cases
uh that that your your customers were
were sort of pulling your product
toward? Yeah. So, So, there's a company
called icon.com and they're basically
replacing video ad companies. So, you go
on and you upload some assets your
product and then you describe what you
want your video ads to be like.
And then they use Trigger to like
process the assets and classify them and
then also just like generate videos.
Um and you get like hundreds of adverts
spat out and then you can give feedback
on those adverts and eventually post
them to TikTok and Instagram.
Um So, that's like a good example of how
to use Trigger. And and in that
in that workflow
the end user uploads all of these
assets, and then
Icon hands the job to Trigger. Trigger
does this sort of long-running workflow
of processing all of the things they've
uploaded and generating new assets.
And then, you know, you send a like,
"Hey, we're done." And it you hand it
back to to to Icon.
Yeah, in real time you can see all the
assets being processed. But then, the
that's kind of There's kind of two In
fact, we talk about this a lot. There's
kind of two parts to building successful
agents. There's the like context that
you need, and then there's the actual
like the moment where you're doing
something with that context. And so,
this is a perfect example because in the
case of Icon, the context is like all of
the assets.
Um and then, the actual generation phase
is where the user describes what kind of
advert they want to make. Um
and it pulls the correct context, and
then it generates new data. Like maybe
it generates AI actors um for their
video.
Um and it in in both cases you want
real-time feedback. Uh so, it it sounds
like Trigger's actually being used to
kind of do the agent loop here, where
the users Once Once the context has been
uploaded, the user's able to say, "No, I
want, you know, a video ad that does X."
Or I, you know, "I'd like one that looks
like this." Yeah, and human in the loop,
by the way, is a like a critical part of
that. Interesting. Um so, you have this
thing running, and then it can pause and
ask for feedback. Uh it could be from a
human, it could be from another agent.
>> Yes. Um and like we will pause the
compute um until the feedback is
received, and then we'll continue it. It
almost seems like this thing that you
had been building
um
for for almost 2 years at that point was
just
perfectly designed for a use case that
didn't actually exist at the time. Uh
like these long-running agent loops
where you need to frequently pause,
check back in, collect more context from
the user.
Uh none of that was around when you
started this, but you're you you find
yourselves like in the perfect position
to to solve this problem for developers.
Yeah, we definitely got lucky.
Yeah, I think that's what he was saying.
Let's fast forward to today.
How much of your usage
is running agent workflows like the one
that you just described? Yeah, it's like
over 90%. Wow. Yeah. Wow.
What are some other interesting ways
that you've seen developers using this?
Yeah, so another customer is Magic
School and they basically provide tools
for teachers and students.
So they're really successful EdTech
company.
And so they their tools basically make
it so that teachers can run their
lessons more efficiently. So it helps
with lesson planning, asking questions,
marking homework.
And on the student side it helps them
make sure that they don't fall behind.
Fair enough.
And they're using these are these are
all done through through kind of agent
workflows and so it's the teacher
chatting Yeah. with an agent
and and and is is Trigger handling the
entire agent execution? Yeah, the actual
agents execute using Trigger. All in
Trigger, okay, got it. And another one
is like a Scrappy Barra.
They were using us to they build like a
code coding agent basically. So think
like you go into their website and log
in and you hook up your GitHub and then
you can like have it build your features
and stuff. And so all that like pulling
down the code and executing and like
evaluating and like running LLMs to
change it and submit the commits to
GitHub and all that. That was all
running on Trigger at W. Are you giving
developers access to the shell itself?
Or does a developer interact with all of
this through a
like a language specific SDK?
Yeah, so they they have full the full
power of a machine basically. So they
can do shell stuff. They can do Python.
And we are we are a TypeScript first
like framework, but we we what what is
sort of output is like a whole machine
image that you've customized.
>> Got it. So you can load anything on
there that you want. And then you can
spin it up and and run FFmpeg or
Puppeteer with Chrome and which a lot of
people do. A lot of people use this to
like run uh you know, Chromium in the
background and um do like computer use
stuff. Got it. Um and so yeah, we get we
give you like the full power of the sort
of the machine. Um but you interface it
through with like a nice like TypeScript
uh framework cuz
sort of the language of like AI
applications are is TypeScript. Um I
know the Python people might not like
that, but
Um but yeah, so you you can do that. And
what what we're doing is sort of
um
you know, the pausing and resuming kind
of primitive. We're we are bringing that
out and like giving people the power to
like programmatically do that. Um and we
think that's like really where the
future of the computing is is basically
uh programmatically being able to do
this type of snapshot and restore
mechanism cuz what you really want to do
is is kind of freeze the compute where
it was at. And you the whole state of
the computer, the CPU, the memory, the
file system. And then you want to say
when whenever something else happens,
like please resume and now everything
that was there before is still there.
And you can kind of pick up where you
left off. Traditionally, you would have
to rehydrate all the state, you know. Um
and that's like a tricky thing to do and
like tons of different time ways of
doing it. Um so we think the whole uh
building everything off of checkpoint
restores like the the way of the future,
basically. It It sounds like it's like
an operating system scheduler, but Yeah.
operating over different containers and
different cloud instances that I never
have to think about as a developer.
Right. It It is Yeah, it's it's
it's tricky to
to do. Um but we're trying to basically
like democratize that technology cuz it
is quite like low-level and there's a
lot of parts to getting it right,
basically. One of the other big things
that changed in the last year is that
just there are a lot of people now
building software that don't have a
traditional software background.
Um
and I'm curious whether you see a split
in your customer base
uh between kind of traditional devs
uh using this the way that they would
any other infrastructure provider versus
like vibe coders who who who have just
picked it up. Yeah, I mean, I think the
vibe coder thing
we we felt a real big like bifurcation
in the vibe coder versus traditional
coders like 6 months ago and a year.
But, I feel like that that has like
collapsed almost. Same or what have you
seen? Well, because they're they're
using up is 4.5 now.
And it's better. And so, there's they
are able to like use us well. Ah. Right?
Whereas before, we were seeing a lot of
people using us very poorly. And a we
have done some a lot of work as well in
the last 6 months. So, maybe part of it
is that to basically be more like LM
friendly. We have built a MCP server out
all of our docs. Like, we've like kind
of flushed them out better for agents
and
skills and like we've done all those
things. So, that's probably part of it,
but I think just because also the agents
or the coding agents are getting much
better that they're able to use us
better. And so, there are use the vibe
coders are running into less issues. Got
it.
>> So, they're actually doing better now.
So, when you say the bifurcation is has
gone away, you don't mean that they've
all dropped off and stopped. What you
mean is like they you're less able to
distinguish between the like serious
devs versus the vibe coders. Yeah, cuz
we could tell before. It was very
obvious. Yeah, the support. There were
like two types of support that we would
have. There would be people who clearly
had never written software before.
Um
and especially when this first started
happening, they were struggling cuz the
product was definitely not built for
them. Yes. Um and we did a lot of work
to make that better. And then there were
questions from like much more advanced
users. But now, it's like all blurred.
Wow. Yeah. As a developer myself, um
one of the like great luxuries of this
moment is that every dumb question I
have, I can just ask Claude code for an
answer first, right? And that that you
know, reaching out to a human line of
support feels like a last resort for me.
Have you noticed
just a change overall in how much people
are using or how little people are using
your customer support?
It's a little bit hard to untangle cuz
we've been growing fast and so like the
support has been going up. I think it's
been going up a lot less fast than it
was. Mhm.
Um, like I guess if you if you were to
plot
like number of customers and executions
and revenue and support, I think there's
there's the lines are diverging. Um.
Well, well, one big benefit that we have
is because we're open source. A lot of
times our customers will just like pull
down the repo and ask it questions about
like how to use us but based on just the
repo our code is out there so they can
do that. But then also sometimes they'll
contact us be like this is the bug like
we found it. I got Claude code found it
and here's the write-up and like I can
go in Slack and just say Claude like fix
this and then Claude fixes it in the
background and pushes a PR to our repo
and it's like okay, it's fixed now. But
so like the quality of support is for
the people who are using these tools
like well Yes. it has definitely like
increased.
>> That's really Yeah. fascinating. And
actually it didn't occur to me
how much of an advantage open source
companies have
because all of their code which is the
source of truth about how the product
works is available Yeah, cuz they can
read the test, right?
>> Yes. That's usually what it is like read
the test and figure out what what
actually is going on. Um. We we talk
about that a lot is the there's kind of
two users now. There's the human user
who wants to build something but also
like
the LLM is a user of trigger and so like
how do we get LLMs to love using trigger
and like choose it um
and I think being open source is a
massive advantage there because we have
a much bigger footprint on the internet
than if we were closed source.
So So maybe talk a bit more about that.
How much How much time and attention do
you spend in your marketing
just focus specifically on agents as
users?
Probably not as much as we should.
Yeah, how do you market to an agent?
It's
How often do you think your customers
sort of are consciously aware that
they're choosing trigger.dev when they
first become users versus how often is
it you know, I want to do X and Claude
Code
reasons and and decides that trigger.dev
is the best way to do that. Yeah, I
think at the moment the stage we're at
right now is that
AI is recommending people to use
trigger, but the human still has to
like actually like go through the sign
up flow. Yeah.
But
we've been talking a lot recently about
how we want it to be like an end-to-end
experience.
So Claude can just like decide to use
trigger and it will just like spin up an
account and start actually like using
us. Oh wow. It can almost do it. It's
just the account part is probably
missing. But everything else it can do.
Wow, that's really interesting. So the
onboarding is You're You have to think
about the agent onboarding experience
maybe before the human onboarding
experience.
>> Yeah, I think
but easily within the next few years
everyone will have to have some sort of
agent. Do you guys use your own product
to build internal tools?
Yeah, we do.
And we're building like we're building
like a support agent at the moment.
So we we use we use some existing
support tools. Um
and I think we could do like a better
job when we do it very specifically for
our use case. Although one of the cruel
ironies Yes. of building a thing like
this is that you keep wanting to use it.
But then every time you use it, you go,
"Oh, that we have to make that better."
So, you end up stopping using it and you
build like to make it better. It's It's
really hard to like force yourself to
like not see an issue and go and fix it.
>> that's the best kind of feedback loop,
isn't it? To be totally honest. And I
And I guess like there's this really
virtuous cycle where
uh the more you use the product, uh the
better the product becomes and the
easier it is to automate a bunch of work
within your own company. Yeah. Uh maybe
let's talk a little bit about that. How
have you thought about hiring in this
world? Yeah. So, so we we uh raised our
series A like last like November time.
Um and you know, our hiring plan has
materially changed since then. Um
we're
definitely not going to be hiring as
many engineers as we were going to. Oh,
meaning in November you had planned to
hire a lot of engineers and at this at
this moment, which is is February, early
February 2026.
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> Yeah, basically with the release of
better like the better planning tools
and Opus 4.5 and cloud code
improvements.
>> Yeah. Like our productivity per engineer
is, I don't know, 5x?
10x?
What it was before.
Um and so we have hired people
um and we will hire some more people,
but definitely much less aggressively
than we were going to.
What have you done in order to make it
easier for the team to work with cloud?
Like you've been working on this product
for
2 and 1/2 years, uh you know, and this
is not a This is no longer a greenfield
project. I'm assuming you have like a a
reasonably large code base now that is
fairly hairy. What have you done to make
it easier for the engineers on your team
and yourselves to work with coding
agents in that code base?
Um to be honest, you don't have to do
that much anymore.
Like it's sort of the you know, the
they're so good. Agents are so good and
you we the
you it it it will figure it out by
itself. I mean, obviously we do the
obvious stuff, right? Like we build you
know, we have all the cloud MD and
agents MD files and all all of that sort
of thing. We've we've um developed our
own like internal sort of tools and
skills and things like that to give
people like really, you know, stuff that
we commonly do and stuff that's like
very specific about our repo and all
that, but it's just yeah, you kind of
like you we almost were like lazy to the
point of like letting the models like
catch up and now you know, we don't have
there's not a bunch of stuff we have to
do to get to be good. It's just already
good. Fair enough.
>> Yeah, yeah. Fair enough. So
in face with the decision of whether to
do a bunch of work to make it better or
just wait for the models to get better.
You're just like, "Ah, that's just uh
Yeah, yeah. You got it. I mean, we
wasn't on purpose, but yeah, let's put
it that way.
Um okay, so you so you uh you are still
hiring engineers. Yes. Not as
aggressively as you had planned to a
couple months ago.
What about the other functions in the
company?
Yeah, so um marketing, obviously. Um so
we've recently hired a dev role. Um and
we're looking for a content engineer.
Mhm. Um so we're we're about to start
publishing a lot of content around how
to build great agents. Got it. Um and
just it will be just general like it
won't be specific to trigger. It's just
we think there is a lot of value we can
add based on like looking at our
customers and our experience. Yeah, and
part of the thing that like we're
evaluating even programmers on our right
engineers on, right? Is well, how well
do they use these tools? Like how well
are they like you're we're not like
looking for people who
um you know, necessarily can go and like
write something from scratch without
using the tools. Like we actually know,
we want to know like how are you using
them? How are you leveraging them? Like
that's the skill now. That's the actual
job. Is like how are you properly
leveraging agents to like do do your
whatever your work. How how do you test
that? Do you Do you Is this baked into
your interview process?
>> Yeah, so the
like one of the latest stages in the
interview is we do a trial day. So, we
pay you to work for us for a day. And
you are encouraged to use the normal
tools you would use. And if someone
isn't using AI tools well, then like
we're not going to hire them. And are
you expecting them to ship something to
production on their on their their day?
No, we don't.
They want to. I mean, maybe you should.
Yeah. Yeah. The interview is just the
job. That's That's kind of interesting.
I think it's like um
it's the absolute opposite of LeetCode
interviews.
Like LeetCode interviews are like these
things that are you kind of Most people,
if honest, revise for them. And then you
do them obviously without AI. And it's
like how practical can you be? Like how
can you ship really high-quality
software? And if you're not using AI to
do that, I think you're crazy. A lot of
the criticism around
the use of AI coding agents in in large
code bases that they they just tend to
produce slop. Like unwieldy, hard to
maintain code, and and maybe unwieldy
product experiences, too. And you guys
strike me as as founders who more than
most care about the really small details
of how your product looks and feels. How
do you and your engineers use coding
agents to produce such high-quality
software? Have you had to think about
that? Yeah, definitely. I think there's
a lot of aspects to that. One is
I think you still need like good
components. If we're talking about like
the front end side of things,
>> Okay. I still think you need like
high-quality components. You don't want
AI to create like the component from
scratch each time. Hm. Um so, like we
have a really strong design system
um that we use. And we obviously adapt
it over time.
Um I think our bottleneck right now is
actually more on the review side. Like
we can generate a ton of code, um but
the quality control and review. And that
review is both like reviewing whether
the code is good and then like kind of
de-slopping it. Um and using AI to do
that, but also, um, like UX.
Yeah, and it So, do you have a process
for this? Is it Is it just
you,
you know, the founders kind of going
through everything with a fine-tooth
comb? Have you built a a pipeline to try
and and make that easier? We use
We've been like evolving this a lot. We
use good code review tools. Yeah. Um,
the with a new dev in code review is
very good for Okay. Um, and we kind of
combine a few different ones. Um, it
depends on what you're doing, like which
kind of, um, like problems you would run
into with the the like using the code
agents. I think one of the mistakes you
might make by like using coding agents
is just viewing them as something that
would
uh, write your code.
>> Mhm.
But what you can use them for is like a
bunch of stuff around writing your code.
So, like,
maybe uh, oh, you might think of like,
oh, I want to like start using this
other thing. Well, benchmark it against
this the thing we're using now, right?
Uh, see how it uses the CPU. Like, is it
more efficient or less efficient? Like,
that's a lot of work, usually. Yes. But
like, well, you can do that with AI
within a few minutes.
>> Yes. And now you've you've now increased
your knowledge about like, what is a
good thing to include in your code or
not. And you would probably wouldn't
have done that before. You might have
just like YOLO'd it and just been like,
I Well, hopefully it'll work better,
right? And we have like our prod sort of
observability stuff and it'll tell us,
right? But now it's like, well, I can
move a lot of that analysis earlier
because it won't take me a week to write
the benchmark.
>> Yes.
Um, so it's a lot of things like that
where it's like, imagine if you had like
an army of people and you could just be
like, oh, can you check that for me? Do
that for me? Do that? Go run like, see
what's happening in production with
this? Like, is it safe if I change it to
that? Like, you can actually do all that
stuff now, and that's sort of what we're
like looking for, like people using
agents not just to like produce the
code. Yes. It's like do the job of like
uh, of a staff engineer. Yes. But with
like a ton of other engineers that are
helping them.
I think on the back end there's also
just like tests. So, if we're honest,
like a year ago we probably didn't have
that many tests in the code base. We now
have a lot of tests. And whenever we're
building back end features, like
creating like verifiable like the agent
needs to know if it succeeded. Yes.
Um and so it we we have a it write a lot
of tests. Um
For the front end we have James.
Yeah, I mean that's that seems to be the
thing that everybody is struggling with.
And and I suppose James is the as the
ultimate arbiter is uh Unfortunately,
yeah, we can't share him. Fair enough.
Well,
there's your moat.
Right now YC we're gearing up for the
spring batch, and that means we're going
to have a whole bunch of new founders
coming in uh that are in a similar
position to the one that you were in at
the beginning of Winter 23 uh 3 years
ago. Do you have any advice?
I mean it's going to sound a lot like
the YC advice, but I I really think
shipping early is is probably the most
important thing you can do. And and
actually cuz once you ship, then you can
actually learn what people want. It's
easy like to sort of yeah, talk to
people before you're shipping, and
obviously that's very important. But
shipping and having something out there,
having something that people can pay
for, and having feedback and bugs and
all that stuff like you you'll learn
sort of the constraints of whatever
you're trying to do, and maybe you'll
learn that like oh, you had some
downtime and no one emailed you about
it, or no one sent you a message about
it. So, it's like oh, maybe we're not
building something important. It's like
stuff that you just you can only learn
by shipping. So, it's not like anything
super like innovative, but it is just
like please listen to YC advice and and
actually ship as early as you possibly
can. I think knowing when to carry on as
well is really challenging. So, like we,
you know, version one
um like there were some signs that there
was like a real problem there.
Um and then with like version two of the
product there was there were more signs,
but we didn't have product market fit.
And I mean it was 2 years
uh before we had product market fit but
we kind of kept going
because I think there was just enough
like hope that there was like a real
there was a real problem here but we
just kind kind of solved it. And I think
it's very hard to call like when should
we like give up and pivot. Where did
that intuition come from? I think we we
had had the problem ourselves before and
so we had felt the pain personally.
Um so we deep down we we really felt
like it was a worthwhile
problem to solve.
Yeah and we sort of knew we like weren't
weren't maybe quite there yet. And but
we knew like it would there's something
here and we we knew it because like yeah
we had felt the the pain for all those
years
building other things.
Being really really close to customers I
think is is the other piece of advice.
Again it's like classic YC advice but um
like if you are talking to them every
day and getting their feedback you will
you will realize things that you would
never have realized like in in a vacuum
on your on your own. Guys I really
enjoyed this. Thanks for spending some
time with me.
Thanks for having us. Thanks. Cheers.