Title: US Senator Cory Booker
Video ID: A6tFPd4bclE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A6tFPd4bclE
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:02:30Z
Duration: PT26M13S
Views: 309
Likes: 7
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 717

Description:
Senator Cory Booker on how tech, science, and innovation can create a more fair and equitable economy.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

All right, everybody. I am a little uh
ginger on my feet right now. Um but uh
my staff wrote me this really great
speech that I don't feel fully in the
mood to write read. Um but I'm going to
put it up here and reference it from
time to time.
Um I was so excited when my staff told
me about this before the fact that I
realized I would have been up a long
time the night before. Um but I'm really
excited just to be in a community of
people that believes in a lot of the
same core values that I do. I I think
human history and American history is in
particular are perpetual testimony to
the achievement of impossible things. I
think innovators and artists and people
who can
see beauty and possibility are the most
valuable people there are. When I first
um came out of law school, um I had a
mother that said to me, this is like one
of the greatest things gifts she's ever
given to me. In fact, what she said to
me is on my desk, she said to me, um, I
didn't know what I wanted to do with my
career, with my life, and she just asked
me this basic question and demanded that
I answer it. She said, "What would you
do if you knew you couldn't fail? I want
you to go and do that." And I didn't
have an answer to her, but she what she
did was trigger me to have a bigger
imagination. And so, I started making a
list of the most inspiring people in my
world that I could think of. And on that
list were Brian Stevenson, who was this
at the time not as well known, but he's
a was a death penalty defender that
stood in the darkest uh most forgotten
places and stood up for the people that
everybody else wanted to condemn. On my
list was a woman named Marian Wright
Edelman. She led something called the
Children's Defense Fund. And I just
believed back then, as I do now, that
genius is the most valuable thing on on
the planet. In fact, the most valuable
natural resource, not gold or oil, the
most valuable natural resource in our
world is the genius of our children. And
it's equally distributed around the
planet. There's as many geniuses being
born in Beverly Hills as there are being
born per capita in Newark, New Jersey.
And the problem we had as a country is
we weren't cultivating and unleashing
that genius on the world. How many
Einsteins or Picassos did we not get a
chance to experience because they did
not have a fair environment to grow up
in? And another person on the list
though was Jeffrey Canada, a guy who was
a MacArthur, got a MacArthur genius
grant because he went into the toughest
neighborhoods in Harlem and just started
serving people and created something
called the Harlem's Children Zone. I
decided he was my model after the most
of them were generous enough to let me
follow them around and I moved to Newark
to do what he did in Harlem. I moved
into the toughest neighborhood I can
find and I was overwhelmed by what I
saw. first time I would go to sleep
hearing
gunshots and I was I was afraid but uh
there's an old saying and I think I
experienced a little bit of that last um
Monday um that when you come to the end
of all the light you know and you have
the courage as many of the entrepreneurs
in this room do have the courage to step
out there in pursuit of your dreams that
out of your comfort zone into that
darkness that faith is knowing one of
two things are going to happen either
you're going to find solid ground
underneath you or the universe will send
you people uh that'll teach you how to
fly. And so I come to Newark and I meet
this extraordinary entrepreneur
uh otherwise the tenant president of
these high-rise
projects who looked at me when I said to
her, "I'm Corey Booker. I'm from Yale
Law School. I'm here to help you." And
she looked at me like I needed help. And
in fact, at that point, I really did.
And she did this test to me. She had me
come downstairs in the projects where
she lived on the fifth floor. He went
down the elevator into the middle of the
street, Martin Luther King Boulevard.
And she says, "What do you see around
you?" And I go, "What do you mean?" She
goes, "Scribe my neighborhood." And I
described it sort of like I described to
you before. There was a crack house on
the corner uh um a project. I just
described it. The more I talked, the
more upset with me she looked. And then
eventually uh she said, "You can't help
me." And she starts walking away from
me. And I chase after her and and grab
her from behind very very respectfully.
And I say, "What are you talking about?"
And she said, "Boy, you need to
understand something. The world you see
outside of you is a reflection of what
you have inside of you. And if you're
one of these people who only sees
darkness and despair and problems,
that's all there's ever going to be. But
if you're one of those people that when
you open your eyes, you see
possibilities, you see hope, you see
opportunity, you see love, you see the
face of God, then you're one of those
people that can help me." and she left
me away on the street looking at my
shoes, thinking to myself, "Okay,
grasshopper, thus endeth the
lesson." I have been blown away to come
out of Stanford in the 1990s and meet
these visionary entrepreneurs that had
that kind of
spirit. I I I mean, my life has been so
enriched by the innovator, the
entrepreneur, the
visionary. And what we need is an
environment that helps to create a
nurturing soil for more of that to
happen. I I think that one of the most
important things we need to be talking
about in America now first is creating a
fair level playing
field. But that's the
foundation. We need to start talking
about how we are going to
boldly push the limits of what's
possible in humanity.
And I hate that we are only looking left
and right right now. We're not looking
up. We're only looking at the other side
or the other side what they're doing and
we're not looking to the skies. When I
was at Stanford as a football player and
I realized I could really help in East
PaloAlto just by showing up with my
jersey. And I was working with these
kids and I had this what I thought as a
19-year-old a profound exercise that
I've done with rooms like this before
where I asked people to raise their
hands as high as you can and then people
usually do and then I say, "Okay, go
three inches higher and and people
strain and then they realize, wait a
minute, I'm sitting down. I could have
stood up and it was always my lesson.
You can always do more your thoughts,
your vision." And so I did this with
these kids and the kids said they didn't
want to do it. And I resorted to a form
of persuasion with these kids often
associated with my profession. Bribery.
Um I I pulled out a $5 bill and I said
$5 to the kid who can keep raises hand
the highest. And I love capitalism.
These kids were innate capitalists. They
did the costbenefit analysis and they
realized, okay, the effort's worth it,
five bucks. And they shot their hands in
the air and now they're all competing
against each other. And I'm about to
pounce on them with my profound lesson
of a 19-year-old. And then I see the
youngest kid with his arms crossed, his
face in a pout. He's the shortest of the
lot. He came from a difficult home and
the last person I wanted to squelch
their imagination. And so I was about to
step towards him
to just hug him and comfort him. And
then he makes a beline, sprints out of
the room. And I run after
him, grab him from behind, and I said,
"Robert, where are you going?" And he
starts struggling. And I go, "What's
wrong?" He said, "You said you'd give $5
to the kid who can raise his hand the
highest, right?
And I said, 'Yeah.' And he goes, "Well,
I know a way to get to the
roof. That's that's where we need to be
in America right
now. I It pains me to have and and I
hope that I'm the filming people here
won't be upset, but I'd rather come
down. It pains me right now that we have
a country where we spend so much of our
energy talking about other people and
not talking about
possibilities. It pains me right now
that our sense of patriotism is getting
lost as people with power and pieces of
people with advantage often are thinking
about how they can get more power and
more advantage to the point where it's
not fair anymore.
It pains me that we've created an
environment where our genius doesn't
thrive.
I got to, and this is where I give a lot
of credit to my Republican colleagues
for hammering these
nails over and over and over again, but
I came to Washington as uh this
entrepreneurial mayor who was already
frustrated with regulations because they
stopped me from doing or tried to stop
me from doing big things in Newark that
could have helped a lot of people, but I
had to deal with the EPA. I had to deal
with I could go through stories that I
don't have time for unless this is a 25
hour speech.
But I got on the commerce
committee and I saw in the on the
commerce committee that everywhere I
looked, government was
overregulating
entrepreneurs. I'll give you some
examples of I I knew the person. They
started a company called 23 and me back
then. It was so hot, so exciting. But
the FDA said, "Nope, sorry. You can't do
this. You can't scrape your cheeks, send
it off, and get back information." I was
like, "What are you kidding me?" Then
there was a nuclear regulations.
Everybody, I grew up not uh uh with a
lot of scary stories about about
nuclear, but I started seeing that the
next generation nuclear, modular
nuclear. It it it was like science
fiction. It could solve our energy
problems. But I was hearing stories that
nuclear regulators were leaving the
United States because we had such an a
regulatory framework that it wasn't
allowing the people to do the research
and do the work. We were losing nuclear
scientists. One of my favorite examples
uh was the drone industry.
I started talking to these these
innovators in the drone industry,
talking to me about what drones could do
and then seeing examples from other
countries that these drones could fix
poles where we in America were having
people dying in that dangerous job or do
mine surveys in places that are
dangerous. But the only licenses the FAA
was releasing was to the movie industry.
And these innovators were saying, "This
is crazy." I I finally had my chance.
the F head of the FAA comes in and I
said, "Sir, if you were around during
the time of Orville and Wilbur Wright,
we would have never got the airline
industry off the
ground." I I I think bureaucracy can be
stifling. I think
that we as America should be having our
economy and our government move at the
speed of innovation and help and empower
innovators because that to me is the
hope. There are problems right now that,
as I like to think, I'm imaginative,
creative, that we don't know how to
solve right now. It's like that story in
New York about their big health problem
where they had piles and piles of
just everywhere, horseshit. I know you
think that that's kind of Washington,
but this was literal horseshit. Um, and
and they couldn't figure out how to
solve the problem. They had commissions
come together. What are they going to do
with all the horseshit on the island?
Dumping into the river created horrible
pollution. And then finally one day the
problem was gone because of something
people couldn't imagine or see. The
automobile was
invented. I I fear we need a restart in
our country. We really do. Somebody
needs to say time out. That every
problem of my life is not Donald Trump
and every problem of his life isn't pick
your person, Chuck Schumer or Hakee
Jeff. that the real problem is not
people. It's our ability to begin to
re-imagine
possibility. Now look, I I am
worried I'm not giving a pass to
anybody. I mean to me the most important
thing we start with is just fairness.
Like every American has this compass and
then like is this fair or not? Well,
there are a lot of things happening
right now that just aren't fair and are
anti-democratic. this this value of of
being in a capitalist entrepreneurial
society and a and a and a and a
multicultural democracy. I think they're
not compet competitive. I think they fit
together so well that the principles of
democracy, the values that this country
are founded with is the secret sauce for
our capitalist system when it's fair,
when we focus on that value of fairness.
This is why I love that our founders
work so hard. these imperfect geniuses
that wouldn't have seen my dignity at
the time, but they were still geniuses
because they grappled. They said, "This
is not going to be a nation formed on on
on a monarchy, divine rights of kings
and queens. We're not going to be
theocracy. We are going to try to make a
nation built on values, shared values,
the highest ideals of humanity." I think
that's what's informed our democracy at
the best.
But when we veer away from our
democratic traditions, when it's a zero-
sum game, winner take all, crush the
competition, even if you're violating
your values, that's not fairness. That
hurts
everybody. And so I was excited when my
staff said, "Get on the antitrust
committee." My staff comes to me with
all the great ideas. And then I take
credit for them.
We jumped on the antitrust committee
because we saw that entrepreneurs,
business people were getting crushed in
areas that that made no sense. That was
not
fair. I our food system is a screaming
example to people with advantage
compounding their advantage forming
these
anti-democratic anti-American values
situation and hurting everybody.
I went out uh west to to visit with
farmers because farmers, it's horrible
what's been happening. We don't talk
about it, but thousands and thousands of
farmers going out of business as these
massive concentrations in the food
industry are happening, disappearing
family farmers. And I went out and I
told the people, my sherpas, I want to
meet Republican farmers, farmers who
probably don't like me. And we did. We
went to these farmers. I still remember
this one guy coming out to me. Um he
looked mean looked like was angry at me.
And I knew that he he only understood
who I was through the lens of of of
reactionary hate media. And I'm not
saying that's only on the right. And I
tried to loosen him up when he was
showing me his cows. I go, "Sir, these
cows are utterly
amazing. I milked every cow joke I could
find. Um, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What do
you call a guy with no kids who still
tells dad jokes?" A faux paw. Um, this
is a tough crowd. This is a tough crowd.
You guys are tough. It's been a long
day, huh?
I sat down at the table with these guys
and we started talking about
concentration proudly. They had their
original deeds from five generations
ago, but now they told me that math
didn't work for them anymore. They told
me about that their dads used to have
five people competing for their goods.
Now there was only one buyer. The guy,
his neighbor, he kept pushing him, tell
him, tell him. The neighbor was afraid
to even speak for fear that the company
would find out and just punish them, cut
them off. I I see what's happening in
the chicken and the the the the pig
industries where they've there's no more
independent farmers. They're all
contract farmers being dictated to
companies. They don't even know the
prices they're going to get. They create
these illegal things. I think they're
illegals. I put bills to try to stop
them uh uh called a tournament system,
but they don't even know how they're
being. There's no transparency.
There's such corporate concentration
there that that and lack of enforcement
of the Stockyard and Packers Act. It's
outrageous. The whole food industry is
like that. Upton Sinclair wrote the
jungle about the same problem. Corporate
concentration resulting in horrific
working conditions. It's a scary book.
It exposed it some incredible people who
said, "Nope, we need competition. We
need to break it up." But guess what's
happened since the 1980s?
The industry has reconentrated more
concentrated than it was when Emplair
wrote about it. And everybody is getting
hurt. Everybody gets hurt from a system
like that. Now, I live in Newark, New
Jersey. As I told you before, I'm hurt
by this broken food system and this
corporate concentration. How am I hurt
by it? Well, we've decided government to
pick winners and losers. We've decided
we're going to use all of our money.
93% of your a subsidies that you pay for
go to big corporate a that produces five
commodity crops. We have subsidized a
broken system that only subsidizes those
crops. You grow fruits and vegetables.
You're not getting any subsidies.
They're called specialy crops. So what
does that create? It creates a situation
where my kids in New York walk into a
bodega and a Twinkie product is cheaper
than an apple. Not because of the true
true cost, not because of the free
market, but because we government have
corrupted the system along with big
monopolies and have created a system
that is actually making Americans sick.
Our grandparents didn't have these
diabetes rates, these hypertension
rates, these stroke rates, these cancer
rates. There's no fairness here. It's
choking democracy.
And so I I see that there my clock is
running out here and I haven't even
gotten to the points I want to make. But
the fair unfairness is crazy. And this
is where I get upset. Let's call balls
and
strikes. The FTC, we we don't want a
system where a big per bully, a powerful
person comes in and fires that. We
benefit from having this idea of
Democrats and Republicans on the
committee bringing their ideas. That's
ridiculous. Let me give you another
thing that's crazy. Mergers. Right now,
I talked to a merger attorney. He's a
friend of mine before here talking about
all these firms having to make the
terrible decision. If you're doing M&A
at a big firm, you need to come to the
government, work with the government.
Now, we have a leader in our country
that's basically saying, you need to
come and count to me if your firm is
going to
survive because you're not going to get
a fair shake on whether your clients and
and and the M. No, you need to come to
me and couch out to me. As I said last
night in this long speech, it's not ask
not what your country can do for you,
what you can do for your country. It's
ask not what your country can do for
you, but just tell me what you can do
for
me. We have to get back to a nation that
has this audacious sense of possibility.
And then we need to create a fair
democratic capitalist environment where
people can compete where once you come
be successful you don't get to punish
and stop. Big tech doesn't get to punish
little tech and say hey you
don't you don't have the ability to be
as big and as successful as I am because
I'm going to use all my
market bullying to stop you. That's
that's not fair. I I can't believe I I I
that the that the this administration
has decided, oh, we're going to drop
cases against PBMs. You guys know what
PBMs are? This is one of the reasons why
the anti-competitive practices that are
driving up the cost of our prescription
drugs to the way that is just again a
perversion of the free market and our
democratic principles. And I tell you
what, it hurts people.
One of the biggest problems right now is
that most Americans, justifiably so,
think the system is screwing them.
Everywhere they look, the system is
screwing them. And you know
what? They're kind of
right. Big concentration in the drugs
that they depend upon, in the food that
is causing them to be sick and need the
drugs in the first place. I could go on
and on and on. It is these big corporate
concentrations that's created not a fair
system that is screwing them over.
And so that should be a bipartisan
cause. Create fair markets, fair
systems, get rid of the hyper
bureaucracy, make it easier for
innovators and entrepreneurs to innovate
and to create up tomorrow. Now, I'm over
my time. I want to finish with a story
because I'm in love with a couple
things. I'm in love with the arts and
I'm in love with with tech and
innovation. So, why am I doing what I'm
doing? I don't know. But God, going to
Stanford in the in the 90s, late
80s, it was so exciting to be in Silicon
Valley during that period. But I want to
end with a story about that because my
dad was born poor. And if he was here,
he'd heckle me. Said, "Don't tell those
innovators I was poor. Tell him the
truth. I was po. I couldn't afford the
other two
letters." He was poor in the South. And
this is the story I want to end
on. Single mother. I I I have my whole
family tree now back into slavery. It
was all poverty, single mother's poverty
till my dad 1936 he was born and his
mother couldn't take care of him. He
found the I call it a conspiracy of
love. People taking care of him in the
community, sent him off to college, got
the money uh uh from a church collection
plate to enroll in North Carolina
Central and H.B.CU. Ended up here in
Washington to people who are committed
to fairness. This is why all this stuff
about diversity, equity, and inclusion,
it bothers me. There was a tech company
at the time that was like, "We need to
make sure that when we're looking for
the most qualified people, we have an
applicant pool that really
is representing all the people." So,
they were looking for people that
graduated from H.B.CU to say, "Hey,
let's find actually the best a merit
system." And and my dad became IBM's
first black salesman. a tech company
changed his
destiny at a at the at the dawn of the
computer age where there was this
incredible triumphant a special American
thing that now China's trying to do. It
was this combination between academia.
Why the hell are we cutting science and
research to academia cutting overhead
costs? It's killing the goose that's
laying the golden egg. It was academia.
It was government doing things right.
Funding research around mainframes and
more. using top innovations to keep our
country safe and strong. And it was
industry, it was entrepreneurs that were
getting it done. It was an exciting
time. And here is this kid who gets a
job with that company. But my dad tells
me about the arts. He says, "I I
couldn't believe it. When I was a kid in
a segregated balcony, I watched this
show about a guy who was who was in this
place that looked like a a different
planet. It was for a kid in rural South.
It was a place that had all these big
buildings. It was Manhattan. And the guy
was getting by on his salesmanship
because he was just nice and kind and
could talk to anybody and was
successful. And so my dad gets hired by
MBM. Those are the the the professional
traits he admired. And next thing you
know, he is
IBM's one of their top global salesmen.
He's in their 5% the the the IBM golden
circle selling computers and all the
innovations that innovators are doing.
And he gets hired to go to the corporate
headquarters, Madison Avenue, New York.
That's how I ended up in New Jersey. And
now he's crushing it. But suddenly he
stops one day on a street corner looking
at these big buildings. He goes, "Holy
crap." This was a vision planted in my
head as a little boy in a segregated
balcony. It was art that inspired me.
Innovators at a time that we were
enforcing antitrust laws. At a time that
we were working with lots of different
companies. My dad knew competition. Oh,
Xerox's doing this. This company's doing
this. I got to make my quotas. I got to
explain why my products are better. When
the products were crap, he would go back
and tell people, "This product's crap.
We got to do it better." Well, this is
how the story
ends. My dad gets
Parkinson's. How dare we cut science and
innovation? I could tell you stories
right now about us cutting money going
to colleges for whatever reason we're
mad at colleges. Oh, let's show our
anger by cutting scientist money.
They're cutting off PhD programs.
They're cutting down the number of
posttos they take. There are people
researching Parkinson's right now and
dementia that are not getting a chance
to do what they're doing. My dad is
dying of that disease and we go to
Israel. My last chance to take my dad on
a trip and my mom says, "I thought you
said a beach someplace, but we're in
Israel." And my dad does something I
that scares me. He starts looking at
this city that we're in and starts
sunsetting. If anybody who has a father
or mother or knows somebody with
Parkinson's where he starts sunsetting,
you go back to this time that things
were great and suddenly he's talking as
if he's in the 1980s and he's talking
like a salesman would. He goes, "Look at
the opportunity here. Whoever has this
this sector could sell a lot of
computers, could sell a lot of laptops."
And I'm looking at this man and think
he's joking at first, but he's not
joking. This man suffering from
dementia, thinks it's the 1980s. And I
said, "Dad,
dad, do you have children?" He goes,
"Oh, I've got these two great boys.
There's nothing they can't achieve." He
starts going on as two children. Looking
at his child and I go, "How old are
they?" He goes, "They're eight and
six." And I looked at my father and I
said, "Dad, I'm your child. I'm your
son." And suddenly it clicked back into
him what had happened to him. And he
starts crying.
He realizes how sick he is and he's
terrified. This strong, beautiful man
knows he's got a debilitating
disease. My dad then started to realize
this is the last time. I don't know
what's going to happen to me. I want to
start telling my son everything that he
had already taught me, everything that
he had already infused into my very
being. But one of the things he tried to
tell me, I want to leave you
with. He said,
"Son, I want you to be kind. I want you
to be
fair. And with grit and guts and
sacrifice, I want you to change this
world." Well, to the innovators here and
anybody that's hearing my
voice, be kind. Be good to one
another. Be fair. Demand fairness.
Demonstrate fairness. And I know in that
position I'm going to try to be one of
the people that creates a fairer
system. And then most importantly of
all, be audacious. Be bold. We need you.
We need the innovators, the
entrepreneurs, the artists of
imaginations to change this world. Thank
you.