Title: The Startup Powering Billions In Trades Every Day
Video ID: AmXE9Gsuw_Q
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmXE9Gsuw_Q
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-06-30T18:16:55Z
Duration: PT33M56S
Views: 3448
Likes: 93
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 881

Description:
When Kelly Littlepage and Steven Johnson launched OneChronos in 2022, they weren’t just launching a new stock exchange — they were rewriting the rules of how markets work. After more than a decade of obsessing over an obscure auction theory from their undergrad days, and six years of quietly solving deep technical and regulatory problems, they built a new kind of trading venue from scratch — one that now handles billions of dollars in trades every day, accounting for over 0.3% of all U.S. equity

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

One Kronos is a new kind of stock
exchange, kind of like a NASDAQ. You
probably never heard of it, but just 3
years after launching, more than 0.3%
of all US equities traded every day
trade on One Kronos. That's billions of
dollars every day. One Kronos is growing
so fast because it uses advanced
mathematical techniques to allow
institutional traders to make
sophisticated trades that were
previously impossible. Here's an
example. Say you're bullish on Tesla and
think it'll dominate the auto market.
You want to simultaneously buy Tesla and
short sell GM and Ford. One Kronos lets
you bundle that into one atomic trade.
Now, that might not be something that
you as an individual investor care
about. But if you're a hedge fund,
making a billion dollar bet, doing that
trade atomically could save you
millions. To get the full picture, I sat
down with founders Kelly Little Page and
Steven Johnson to understand how six
years of quiet determination and a deep
belief in a seemingly esoteric
mathematical principle created a company
that has suddenly changed the way
institutional markets function.
I'm very excited to have here today the
founders of One Kronos, Kelly and
Steven. Thank you guys so much for being
here today. Thanks so much for having
us. Take us back to the beginning. Um,
how did you guys meet? And what did you
guys do in life that led you to starting
One Carnos? We actually met in middle
school. We grew up in the same
neighborhood at one point, then ended up
adjacent, and became really good friends
in high school. So, it's a lot easier to
start a company when there's just no
unknowns about your co-founder really.
Yeah. We grew up uh south of Denver in
Colorado in the in an ocean of suburbs
where uh there wasn't much to do but
tinker with computers and get in trouble
with computers. So kind of bonded over
that. Went to school on opposite coasts
but stayed in touch just as friends and
over our careers where we kind of ended
up working in similar technologies but
very different industries. I learned
today you actually got kicked out of
middle school for hacking the school's
computer system or something. Uh the
middle school transgressions were more
behavioral, shall we say? Uh talking
back to teachers. The subsequent high
school suspensions were more directly
related to uh to computer incidents. All
very harmless pranks, all very white hat
hacking, but uh very misrepresented,
very taken out of context.
And then you ended up going to Caltech
for college. How did what you guys did
in college relate to what you guys are
are doing now? Did it implant some of
the seeds?
Probably the guy that had the most
impact on me in undergrad though not
knowing at the time was I took undergrad
econ with Preston McAfee who is one of
the most famous auction theorists and
coming in I'd never even heard of or
thought about an auction in an academic
context and I was studying physics but I
got really interested in some of the
computational richness and complexity
and really the notion that you could
engineer good outcomes in an economy and
that this is a CS and a math problem not
just a classic econ problem. And then
how did you guys learn about trading?
How did you even like know about this
problem? Similarly, when I was in
undergrad, I heard the story of David
Shaw and his general approach to wanting
to make money in finance and use that
money to fund basic research. And that
really resonated because especially at
this point in my career, I thought of
myself as a very average scientist, but
maybe I'd have a better chance at
building something that creates value
and can still fund basic research.
So I decided to go to a hedge fund is
the short answer. And at that hedge fund
I realized that some of the biggest
problems were really the impedance
mismatch between the way that current
capital markets are wired and the way
that traders or more accurately
portfolio managers in this context are
thinking at a high level. And that
really pulled me back to my experience
in undergrad thinking about these types
of auctions, knowing that there were
better auctions out there, but also
knowing that there are very good reasons
that they're not currently used at that
point in capital markets. And and it
wasn't that we thought about or
necessarily aspired to start a company
or do this. It was really just talking
about the problem and then just getting
increasingly interested in and convicted
in the fact that this is something that
had to be done. Is it fair to say that
he was sort of a combination of two
ideas? There was seeing the problem from
working and trading at a very high level
at a hedge fund that traded like large
amounts of money and then seeing the
solution from your undergrad years and
realizing that like no one had put these
two pieces together. I was doing a lot
of cyber security work trying to find
signals in large data sets that hackers
were breaking into companies and Kelly
was looking for signals in markets to
find that stocks were mispriced. Um and
we were using modern data tools to do
all this and sort of had the realization
that the stock market there are many
different exchanges, many different
electronic trading platforms and it
looks a lot like a database like a
distributed database system where you
have these anomalies like a write
happens in one place, a read happens in
another place and the read is on stale
data and that's exactly a arbitrage
condition that exists in electronic
trading. And um so we kind of pulled all
these pieces together over the years to
um initially try to address like the
thought exercise of how would you build
an exchange that was immune to these
latency race conditions. So that was
kind of what the the early years were
about. Um, and then a lot of Kelly's
research in auction theory came in when
we um realized that the the tools and
techniques to run optimizations
were at a point where, you know, we
could potentially use those and do much
smarter things than exchanges do
currently in the actual, you know,
semi-realtime
matching process. One Kronis is is sort
of like the perfect example of like a
overnight success 10 years in the
making. That's a great way to put it.
You guys like the exchange launched in
the middle of 2022. Yep. But what year
would you say you started thinking about
the ideas that eventually became one
Kronos? Back in I think the earliest
time stamp we have conceptualizing
anything was 2011 probably. So like over
10 years before it actually launched.
Yeah. And then there was a there was a
few period when sort of you were the
ideas were sort of like circling around
and then in 2016 you guys decided to
actually go allin quit your jobs start
this thing as a real company. You did YC
but then it took another six years from
then until when the exchange actually
launched. Yeah. Well,
pretty much summed it up. Um
u I I think like one of the probably
funniest and most important moments of
the the company on the origin story was
really a conversation we had with you
which was right after we got rejected
from YC for the first time. Uh so
you were you were nice enough at the
point to say let's let's keep talking
and this was back when YC was doing a
batch every well twice a year. Uh so
there was there was some time in between
and basically we walked you through kind
of at a higher level of the problem that
we were going after and said we think
it'll take you know five years and $10
million to to build something like this
and you said something effect of we're
going to need to get that down to like
six months and 500k which was really
just how do you how do you demonstrate
the MVP on some way to kind of get
people interested keep going from there
and we did find a path to that. But the
cool thing is is it was completely the
right approach what you were proposing.
We did ultimately raise $10 million and
we did ultimately launch over the period
of about five years and every step of
the way we kind of had a path to to
launch into an MVP if we had to. But as
people and the investors that were very
close to us appreciated the problem at a
deeper and deeper level, the more they
thought, "No, no, no, you get you get
one shot at launching this the right way
and you should build that. You should
build that and maximize the chance of
success." And turns out that we came in
thinking that we had one deep tech
problem. Turns out we had two deep tech
problems to solve. We were initially
very focused on the optimization side of
just how do you actually scale these
computations to the speed and complexity
of capital markets. But the second part
was how do you make dealing with a
combinatorial auction which is a very
foreign concept to capital markets
especially before we launched and it's
still relatively foreign even with our
success at this point. How do you make
that accessible?
It ended up taking you guys six years
from the time that you went full-time in
the company until when the exchange
actually launched, began trading like
real real money.
Can you walk people through like what
happened during those three years? How
were you guys doing every day? What was
that journey like to get there? Yeah, it
was very much a journey of having to
solve hundreds and hundreds of smaller
problems that roll up into the bigger
problem. And I think that's that's true
for basically any startup. Um the
magnitude is much greater when it's a
combination of the technology is really
hard. The two deep tech problems Kelly
was talking about. It's regulated. So
there's a whole body of operations and
sort of uh seemingly irrelevant stuff
that needs to be done to get approved
especially for something where we had to
spend a lot of time educating the
regulators on this concept. One quote
from one of the regulators that really
stuck with me was when we were in the
middle of walking them through, you
know, over many different meetings
walking them through how our matching
process works. Well, stepping back for a
second, the way that pretty much every
exchange matches orders is called price
time priority. So, first you look at the
price of the order to see if it's the
best priced. If there's a tie, which one
came first? And there's books written
about like the the advantages and flaws
of doing this, but it's ubiquitous in
almost all of trading. And um we don't
do that. We look only at price and
volume. and we completely ignore except
for like admission into the auction, we
completely ignore time as a way of doing
priority. And so the regulator at one
point said, "Yeah, well maybe it's time
that we maybe it's time that we look at
different alternatives to the limit
order book." And I was kind of surprised
by that because everybody had sort of
indicated, you know, publicly everyone
views regulators as these stodgy like
people who say no all the time and
that's not really been the experience um
when we were like really in the weeds
with these regulators. So that really
stuck with me and that's like that's one
class of problems that has to be solved
is that you have to like educate all
these people on your novel mechanism. um
when you know you wouldn't have to do
that in other cases. Also things like uh
just silly things like having to go buy
a printer because we had to prove to
FINRA that we were able to print
something in our own office instead of
like the wei work that we were working
out of. So there's there's all these
little things um and much bigger ones
too where you know we could end up we
could have ended up paying 200k a year
for this regulatory service but figured
out a way to do it in an automated
fashion in the cloud and it was
essentially free. So having to solve a
lot of little problems like that took a
took a big chunk of time. But I will say
one of the big tailwinds and Kelly kind
of alluded to this. One of the tailwinds
across all those years was the more
comfortable people got with the model,
the more conviction they had that it was
the right idea. So, we kept hearing over
and over, "This is the coolest thing
I've heard of in capital markets, maybe
in my career." Like, those comments were
not rare, but you'll never print a
trade. It's too hard to get this done.
Like, it's too hard to cold boot a
marketplace. So that sounds like a like
a motivator and a demotivator, but it
was actually a motivator and an even
more motivator to prove everybody wrong
about printing a trade. So we had years
and years worth of tailwind to keep us
going. You not only had to solve these
two hard techch problems that no one had
ever solved before with the hundreds of
sub problems and convince all the
regulators to allow you to invent a
totally new kind of way of trading
stocks. You also had to solve the cold
start problem of a new trading venue.
You have to have buyers and sellers like
you had to have initial liquidity. How
did you solve that cold start problem so
that when you launched like trades
actually happened? Yeah. And that is
there's technical problems and then
there's exactly this type of commercial
problem. And I have to say that this is
the mother of all problems even compared
to the technical side of it.
However, going the other direction, we
got people who were kind enough to plug
into us when there was no liquidity day
one because they did understand the
technical part and they understood what
this could mean for the market. And they
also understood that if we were
successful, there was value in being
there earlier first so that they would
have more reps using this type of market
so that their clients would see that
they were innovative and got there
first. So, we're obviously very grateful
for every subscriber we have, but we're
especially grateful for the ones that
plugged into a market that traded 200
shares on its first day of existence.
After thinking about it for 10 years and
working on it full-time for six years,
you finally hit the on switch. Yep. And
what what happened that first day? Test
trades. Test trades. Okay. So, 200
shares. 200 shares. People making sure
that the the pipes work in a literal
sense. There's an entire process that
happens for reporting trades. There's
the in settlement process. There's all
these things that happen after. So,
typically when people are onboarding a
new venue, they do this and they wait a
few days. So, how long did it take to go
from test trades to real commercial
trades? We kind of hit our run state in
Q3. So we I I want to say our first
trade ever was June 21st, June 22nd.
Yeah, it was it was the last week of
June sometime. And yeah, that was the
first production trade. And then a while
went by where most people were still
just doing test trades. Kind of started
actually getting that nice hockey stick
curve towards uh towards end of August,
September that year. You know, I work
with a lot of startup founders and a
really common thing that I've seen is
that often when things aren't working,
even, you know, just like a couple
months into an idea, they tend to get
demotivated and they start like doing
office hours to ask whether they should
pivot.
Um, and you guys had this like six-year
period during which lots of smart people
were basically telling you that you were
wrong and that this thing wasn't ever
going to work. no trades had actually
ever happened on the on the exchange.
Um, what was it that kept you guys going
for this like six years kind of
wandering in the wilderness to finally
get to that point where you launch it
and it started to work? I mean, a big
part of it was uh people were telling us
that people were telling us it wouldn't
work, but they weren't telling us we
were wrong. They were actually telling
us we were right. you're 100% right
about like this is how market structure
should be, but it's just so difficult to
break in and to to get the initial
liquidity you need to get everybody
connected and to get people over the
complexity hurdle. Um, even if they
don't have to change anything about how
they trade, understanding the model,
there's no there's no denying it is more
complex under the hood than uh what
people are used to. For me at least,
part of it was that the motivation of
everyone telling us that this was the
correct idea. Um, and I think also part
of it was we didn't really set out to
just start a company and because that
would be fun. Even though like it is
pretty fun, that's not that wasn't the
goal. The goal was to solve this problem
and we had been thinking about it for so
long that you know it seemed like uh it
would be a shame to just abandon it even
though we thought it was right and
everybody agreed that it was the right
thing to do. What we knew we needed was
more time so we kept putting more time
into it. I think it's really interesting
like the way that you guys thought about
it is sort of like first principles
thinking. It reminds me of the beginning
of OpenAI, which also took
almost exactly the same time actually,
essentially like six years to go from
like starting the company to like
actually launching a product that
anybody cared about. In a lot of ways,
one Kronos is actually more like a hard
tech company than a software company in
terms of the amount of time and capital
that it took you guys to actually get
get live. I'm curious to drill into um
sort of like the conceptual origins of
this because it's like such a like from
first principles thing. Do you guys
think you can explain to the audience
sort of how markets work now and then
what was the key insight that like
underpinned all of this that the idea
that you guys got obsessed with that
seemed like the the the inevitable
future? So auction theorists think a lot
about um different pathologies that can
result in someone not bidding their true
price. And true price in a sense means
like price and quantity just kind of
their true economic value for something.
So the thing that really kicked off
comatorial auctions in a commercial
setting was the FCC taking a look at how
to license wireless spectrum back in the
90s. So, the thing about wireless
spectrum is it's a market with a lot of
substitutes and complements. Meaning
that if you're building a national
wireless network, like a 5G network by
modern standards, there's a bunch of
different frequencies that can work for
you. And you don't necessarily care
which one, but if you're a national
player, you care a lot about winning a
contiguous allocation of these
frequencies.
meaning that if you're bidding on West
Coast, East Coast, and you miss the
middle of America, you no longer have a
a national network. So these are markets
with really strong substitutes and
compliments. And the way that this used
to be kind of dealt with an auction is
you can imagine that all right, let's
just say I'm making up numbers, but
let's say you have 800 frequencies and
three geographies. Is you as the
auctioneer could say, I'm going to sit
here and I'm going to auction these off
one by one. And the challenge when you
do that is that biders have to start
thinking really strategically about
how am I going to think about this if I
lose part of this? Am I going to then
have to pay to am I going to have to pay
spread to sell that back to someone? Am
I going to try to build a different
network? So they start having these
counterfactuals that make them want to
pay less for that. And you can end up in
these really inefficient outcomes where
everyone is willing to pay more
but they won't. And that problem is the
exposure problem as it's called.
Comtorial auctions give you the ability
to get away from that and instead
express the mathematical optimization
that you want directly to the exchange.
You can get much more efficient outcomes
because investors no longer face this
exposure problem of hey what if I get
this portfolio and it's unhedged or it's
not exactly what I want. So it solves
both the exposure problem but also the
ships passing in the night problem of
people having mutually offsetting
economic interest that they would be
willing to trade with each other but no
way to discover that they actually have
that interest because they're not
willing to put out a piece of the
overall picture that could then leave
them exposed. That's an example of like
a specific trade. How how does that work
in like the the old school world and how
does it work in the Kronos world? Yeah,
it's an excellent question. Um, so in
the old school world, everything trades
through algorithms basically. So you
have an algorithm that's saying, "All
right, I'm going to buy a little bit of
stock A. Hopefully the stock the price
of stock B doesn't move. All right, I'll
do a little bit of stock B, falling
behind on B, need to get back to A."
It's sort of just juggling the risk and
hoping for the best at the the end of
it.
um what one Kronos or what a
combinatorial auction lets you do is
embed that constraint in your trade. So
you could say all or nothing. The entire
position that I want in both A and B
sell and buy that has to happen all or
nothing as in a single atomic
transaction. That's like a new API for
stock trading like for like like uh like
like the core like API like call
signature for stock trading has always
taken like one stock symbol and like now
with one Cronis it takes like multiple
stock symbols, right? Yep. Yep. And more
more generally multiple stock symbols
and constraints that you want enforced
on the way that they interact with each
other. What does one Kronos the company
look like now? Like how many employees?
Who's on the team? About 40 people at
this point. Um, so we we launched in
only 40 people. So you trade 0.3% of all
US equities every day with a team of 40
people. Who who works at BCets? Is it
folks who come out of the quant finance
world or folks from other Certainly?
It's certainly a mix. So on the
technical side, we have people that have
zero career experience, zero finance
experience up to people that were some
of the founding engineers at what are
now very well-known
market makers for example. So it's that
entire spectrum. The the overall culture
is very much engineering as far as the
way that we think about product as far
as the way that we think about building
these APIs and primitives. A lot of it
is the reflection of our previous life.
So our third co-founder was a global
head at Goldman for most of his career.
He very quickly latched on to what we
were doing. He got connected to us via
an investor of ours coming out of YC
demo days. So as you'll see the the
continuing theme here is that YC has
been a pretty important part in the
entire company journey. But I would say
like the unifying thing for everyone at
the company is first principles thinking
and an emphasis on just keeping things
very small and very tight. And like we
think a lot about WhatsApp type stories
where you built a giant company, but the
thing that's really cool is the per
capita outcome for that company as
opposed to just you built a bunch of
revenue, you hired a bunch of employees.
The really cool thing to us is what that
ratio looks like. What does the future
look like? stay as small as possible
throughout all of this. You know, we
think that small teams produce the best
outcomes. And we have a we have a little
bit of an advantage, I think, in that we
can treat uh to an extent we can treat
each of these different asset classes or
types of markets that we roll out as um
their own team. And which markets is
this applicable to? You're live with US
equities now. You're going to launch
foreign currencies and European
equities, but is this applicable to
every market? is basically every is
basically every asset in the future
going to be traded on a one Kronos like
exchange? That's that's the way we think
about it. And we also think about the
fact that there's a lot of there's a lot
of things in the real economy that are
not capital markets assets. And there's
a lot of cases where capital markets are
approximating some activity in the real
economy. And the reason they're doing
that approximation is that existing
exchange mechanisms don't allow buyers
and sellers to express those compliments
and substitutes. Basically, your
hypothesis is that this this concept is
going to like take over the world. It's
just a better way to trade stuff and
it's going to go all the way to
electricity markets and commodities
markets and basically everywhere in the
economy that we're going to rewrite the
way that we actually trade assets. Yep.
Yeah. where any place where there are um
compliments and substitutes or even more
broadly uh what they call non-pric
factors. So constraints things you care
about about the transaction that are not
the price or you know the number of
units. So any anywhere where those crop
up these types of markets smart markets
have performed very well and it turns
out that is most types of transactions.
So I think I think the the important
part about the emergence of you know
compute as this resource is yeah like
like compute is the new oil. Yeah.
Compute is the is the new oil and it's
but there's there's not like a exchange
infrastructure for compute the way there
is for for oil. It's super
underdeveloped. There's not Yeah. I mean
the the closest thing to that there is
kind of a marketplace for compute but
it's this distributed marketplace where
you have the major CSPs the major cloud
providers and they all offer pricing per
hour or day or month. You have the
Neocloud offerings kind of coming up
behind that. And then there are brokers
that will find you a block of 10,000
GPUs for the next week or whatever it is
for a month. Um there's this kind of
reservation
system. There's uh so there's like a
distributed marketplace for all this.
But like here's a fun unknowable
question like how much actual
utilization are we at right now of GPUs
across all the data centers and like
what could we do in the way of medical
research and like academic research or
things that make money like what could
we do with all that idle capacity? And I
think that question just becomes more
and more important as the as both the
asset base gets bigger and it's you know
hundreds of billions of dollars of
servers and as the value gets higher.
Yeah. The GPU market seems super
inefficient and fragmented right now. I
know even like the companies NYC who
need to do large training runs, they're
constantly scrambling trying to find a
block of GPUs that are available for the
time window that they want the like the
right kind of GPU, the right block size.
It's actually like very hard. It's it's
like a it's like a a like a like a block
size problem that seems like no one has
solved and almost as if you're
describing compliments and substitutes.
Yeah, it's it's it seems like actually a
perfect fit for the combinatorial
auction. Okay, so I was at MIT and some
other places recently and I was talking
to a bunch of undergrads and they were
saying basically if they go work for
Jane Street or Citadel, they can make a
lot of money right out of school and it
feels like a very high opportunity cost
for them to leave that on the table and
go start their own company where, you
know, the future's uncertain. might
work, it might not versus like I'm being
paid like guaranteed cash upfront at
these jobs. But you guys must have
confronted this as well like you were
working at a hedge fund I assume in a a
a similar position. How did you guys
think about not just the idea but sort
of like the life choice of deciding to
like go allin on this sort of uncertain
journey? Yeah. Well, I I think you hit
on one really important part for our
calculus is that there's the eternal
debate of do you start something super
early on in life or do you work for a
period? And for us anyway, the reason
that we had the staying power to build
something really big was that we did
work for a period and we had that to to
set us up. Really, the opportunity cost
is pretty enormous for if you have a job
at one of these great quant trading
firms. You have to really know if the
startup is something that you feel so
passionately should exist that you're
okay with that type of an outcome
regardless of what happens.
I'm personally of the mindset that
starting a a startup for a company
because you think it's a good business
idea but not something that you really
care about very very hard to grind over
any extended period of time. Like we've
talked about sort of like the
intellectual decision-m where you guys
like had this like from first principles
thinking where you're like no like this
this this idea like must exist I can
basically prove it like mathematically
how this is going to work but how are
the like emotional side like were you
conflicted for a while? Was this a a
difficult decision? Were you guys
married at the time? Did you have to
like persuade like your family and like
other people in your lives that this was
a good idea or is it just like a
no-brainer just like of course I'm going
to do this? Yeah. So, I was I was
married at the time. I had actually just
gotten married maybe I don't know a year
or so before we went full-time on this
and um but I'd been with my my now wife
for a very long time before that. And
yeah, there was there was definitely the
the personal, you know, team decision of
like am I crazy for doing this or not?
And um I think one of the one of the
elements there is like how do you
minimize regret? So that's another
framing of opportunity cost I guess. Um
the indirect opportunity cost. How do
you think about that? So I I think uh
you know when you're we were both about
five or six years into our career at
that point and um I think that's enough
time that at least for me I was pretty
comfortable that there would always be a
job that so I was working at Accenture
at the time. It's a huge company. I was
doing R&D stuff there. They're always
going to be doing that. So it was kind
of like I could go back and do the same
thing I'm doing probably and maybe miss
a year, miss two years, whatever. turned
out to be six years before we launched,
but uh you know missed some time. Um but
I think you know just continually
checking in and being like am I still
net enjoying what I'm doing here? Yep.
Okay, let's keep keep going. Very
similar experience. Not something that I
thought about too much once we'
committed to doing it. And similarly, I
was okay with a very wide range of
outcomes in life. Money has never been
important to me as long as there's
enough to provide for your family. And
kind of to Steve's point, I got
comfortable with the fact that you don't
need a hedge fund wife or anything like
that to do that. One Cronis is like kind
of a rare example, I think, of a Silicon
Valley tech style company actually
innovating in Wall Street in the
financial markets. Um, do you guys think
that there's room for more companies
like Mon Kronos in the world? Are there
are there other big unsolved problems
here that other like smart people from
like a quant finance background should
be going and tackling? Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I think um the one of the barriers
to entry is it's hard to just Google
like how does trading work at a bank and
like software engineers, we're used to
everything being so open and you can
just kind of get answers to whatever you
need publicly on the internet. Um that's
very much not the case in finance is one
of many industries like a lot of the the
industries that are more that have been
you know established for a long time. um
there's kind of an information wall. So
figuring out how to break that is the is
one of the big challenges and that could
involve like going to work there for a
while or finding the right person which
is tricky finding the right person to to
work with. But um I think people who
have solved that problem it's uh it is a
the other thing that comes to mind is
just like it's it's a different type of
engineering process.
um you can't do the move fast and break
things when you're dealing with like5
billion dollars a day of stocks and and
like if there's any sign that you're
doing that then people will sniff that
out and they they won't work with you
and so it is like you you said it
perfectly before it is kind of a hard
tech problem even though we're not
building you know rocket ships or
anything it's the same kind of uh
mission critical or like critical
systems engineering mindset that that
has to happen for a lot of Wall Street,
not all of Wall Street, but for a lot of
it. And kind of Steve's earlier point
about we signed up for one problem and
ended up with 200 sub problems. It's the
the more of these subpros we understand,
the more we see and think of problems in
there. And our our mission is really to
drive the marginal cost of matching a
trade to zero by generating
infrastructure that is so strong and so
good that it's just completely aligned
with users on if we create economic
value for you, we get paid. But if
there's no value creation in these
auctions, then we need a different model
of competition than currently exists in
capital markets. And a big part of that
is figuring out all of these sub
problems. And we would love for someone
to come in and figure out a lot of these
sub problems. And if not, we're just
going to keep chipping away at them on
our own. Like that's a great note for us
to end on. Yeah. Thank you guys so much.
Thank you. Thanks for having us, Jared.
This is awesome.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]