Title: How Should Little Tech Approach D.C. and Brussels?
Video ID: Aw_qfill_fo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aw_qfill_fo
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:02:36Z
Duration: PT21M18S
Views: 373
Likes: 3
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 601

Description:
A panel with:

David Lawrence - Policy Director for the Antitrust Division, US DOJ
Andrea Gadotti - Technologist, European Commission
Austin Bishop - Co-founder & CEO, New American Industrial Alliance (NAIA)
Katie Mcinnis - Chief Democratic Counsel, Subcommittee on the Administrative State, Regulatory Reform, and Antitrust
Jamie Susskind - Legislative Director, US Senator Marsha Blackburn

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm really excited because we did Y
Combinator with my my my first company,
but it was during COVID during the
remote batch and so this is my first
time actually at an official Y
Combinator event somehow. Um, but it's
really good to see everyone. Um, thanks
guys for being on stage. Uh, yeah, just
a quick one on on what we've been
working on. I mean it's been great to
hear you know such myriad voices on the
importance of technology and innovation
and also where that really overlaps not
just sort of tech for tech's sake but
understanding that you know our economy
is is you know it's it's made up of
people and and you know like the senator
was talking about earlier you know this
genius comes from all over the place
whether it's where I'm from in the
Midwest where you're from and or on the
coasts and I think we're in a really
interesting position right now where a
lot of folks are realizing um you know
the importance of be able to build and
make things in back in the US and and
and and um so it's been a a real
distinguished honor for me for the last
few years to kind of focus on this
broader mission of re-industrialization.
So we we have this trade or called the
New American Industrial Alliance um
where YC is a member along with a lot of
other great small companies all the way
to some of the largest companies in the
world. We're just really focused on uh
simple mission countries should have
more sovereignty over where and how
things are made. Um and uh real honored
to be able to be on the stage and so
kind of with that I don't want to talk
you guys ear off and pitch too much have
a great uh number of people on the stage
and Dave I wanted to start with you um
you know founders in
garages tend to you know have a a former
division staffer on retainer or they
tend to not have former division staff
around I remember the YC batch none of
us knew anything about lobbying I wasn't
in DC at the time um you
While your inboxes are flooded with
white papers or why excluding those
founders from the markets is somehow a
good thing. How are founders and little
tech companies supposed to come in with
concerns and ideas and even be um you
know even know the right questions to
even
ask? It's such a great question. I want
to thank Y Combinator for having me. Uh
this is an incredibly important and
useful event. There are dozens of panels
going on around the city today. I think
that this might be one of the most
important questions and actually this
event is part of the answer. Uh and I
turn it around on government too. How
can policy makers in Washington
or in Brussels be ensuring we're hearing
from little tech? And the reason this
matters for those of you new to the
competition conversation is we're coming
out of a generation of policym
completely dominated by large powerful
companies. As it turns out, this is
pretty easy math. Monopoly power is
profitable. And some of those monopoly
rents get spent on people who wander
this city into just about every office
with stacks of paperwork in their hand
about why monopoly is a good
thing. That's a problem for us in the
policymaking community. And when I, you
know, when I talk to people outside the
beltway who aren't familiar, they're
just absolutely shocked at how eagerly
and often those lobbyists come into our
doors. I mean, we have a whole new front
office that just started. Every one of
them received multiple phone calls in
their first couple days. I received
multiple phone calls a week from people
paid in the city to do that work. Uh,
and I think the conversation is changing
though. Uh you saw like when President
Trump nominated Gail Slater, he said big
tech has run wild for years, right? I I
think that this lobbying complex is part
of what he's talking about, but he also
talked about what I see as part of the
solution. He said we need to focus on
fairness for big for little tech as
well. We need that's a direction to us
as policy makers to be listening to the
voices of little tech. And so as we
think about the answer to this
challenge, right, you don't necessarily
have a a big law firm on retainer, you
don't need one. I think one of the
biggest things I have come to realize is
that the little tech community, the
founder community, they're often just
surprised at the idea. They could pick
up the phone and call the antitrust
division. They could read that brief and
see a bunch of people's names on it,
find it on our website, the the phone
numbers are there, and come into our
inboxes. That's definitely what the sort
of monopoly lobbying industrial complex
is doing. And so the number one message
I'd encourage for you all from this
summit and in general is please come to
us, tell us your stories. We need to
hear them and understand them.
I like it. All right. Very open-ended
question for you. Why why should
founders care about the DMA?
Try to keep it to 15 minutes and 13
seconds. Um, thanks for the question.
Thanks for having me. Um I also have to
say sorry that um I'm I'm speaking in
personal capacity and so my views do not
necessarily reflect the position of the
the commission. Um so developers should
care about the DMA because you know a
lot of the conversations that we had
today point to the fact that it's
essentially developers should have more
rights today than than they had before.
And that's exactly what the DMA does. So
the DMA today already creates
opportunities that were not there before
the DMA entered into force. So the DMA
essentially specifies some dos and
don'ts that uh that gatekeepers so big
tech has to has to implement. Um and you
know this creates some very concrete
possibilities that did not exist before
and I just want to give like a very
concrete example. Just two weeks ago, we
adopted a specification decision on
Apple for iOS that really specifies how
Apple should implement interoperability
for certain features in uh in iOS. Um
and one of these for example is access
to uh iOS notifications which is very
useful for thirdparty smart watches.
Another feature is all the
functionalities that are necessary to
build an alternative to airdrop. Uh
which which al of course also opens up a
lot of different uh opportunities
including let's say crossplatform uh
file sharing. So the DMA is already
infor enforced today. the commission is
enforcing it including via these very uh
powerful tools that are specification
decisions that allow us to define
exactly what the company needs to do and
developers should really be involved in
this process as they are. I mean we ran
a public consultation for example but we
would have liked to hear you know from
even more developer that that we heard
about.
How do you uh balance, not to go too off
piece, but sort of
um you know, sort of the the the
reputation I think that a lot of the
larger companies try to uh put on Europe
as being um you
know, against or having having issues
with free speech as being a way to
regulate a lot of these as a way to
regulate around the the real issues like
you're talking about and being an excuse
to not have to comply with things like
DPA, um raising the flag of free speech,
speech in sort of you know what I I find
to be kind of cynical cynical things. Do
you see it the same way? Not to beg the
question. No, I mean I think so
something that was very um clear in the
letter from uh from that the white
combinator sent to to to Donald Trump um
is precisely that I mean the DMA creates
opportunities and this is really you
know we this panel is not about other
regulations. Um, so the the DMA creates
opportunities for little tag that are
necessary for an a level playing field.
So I really think that that's the the
the important message and that play
level playing field of course the
beneficiaries are all uh little tech
players, right? So that that applies to
any player in any juris well not their
jurisdiction but also American companies
let's say. Well, this is I mean we've
managed to have everyone sit in the
perfect order. This is perfect. for the
way I have my questions written. So, um
Jamie Katie, sort of a reflect off the
question I asked David earlier. Um how
how should know little tech companies
think about approaching the Hill whether
it's on the House side or the Senate
side? Um you know, what are I don't know
if it's tips and tricks or should they
be approaching um the offices directly
or the committees? I mean, what's the
first thing you would, you know,
recommend these companies and start to
think about, especially if they don't
have a lob, if they can't afford to have
a lobbyist on staff um and they don't
know anyone in DC, where do they start?
Yeah, I mean look it doesn't at least to
my office it doesn't matter if you have
a lobbyist. In some cases having a
lobbyist is not a good thing. Um you
know I will say that in my own
experience right like the most powerful
um sort of group we had come to us in
the last congress was you know a group
of berieved moms who we worked with on
kids online safety act right these
aren't lobbyists like these are moms you
know they found one um advocacy group
that worked with them but like these are
just regular parents who you know have a
story to tell um you know I would say in
my office um we're sort of willing to
like take the meeting unless you seem
like a serial killer or like a crazy
Um, so like come right like if you have
a good story to tell, come tell the
story. Like be prepared to have
examples. Um, be prepared to sort of
share facts, right? Like be succinct.
But I mean we I mean for years, right,
I've sort of known the Y Combinator
folks and some of their members and like
they've come in sort of since day one
that I've been in my office to tell
their stories. So, you know, I think
sort of not having a lobbyist on
retainer follow the lobbying disclosure
laws obviously, but um that shouldn't
preclude folks. And obviously, you know,
in the tech sector, there's a lot to
grapple with. So, um, the more expertise
we can get from folks, I think the
better. Yeah, absolutely. Uh, you know,
the the education of Congress on tech
issues is long-term. And also pushes for
laws are generational. So, talking to a
member now may pay off years later, even
if it doesn't feel like it in the
moment. Um, also important to remember
that the that Congress serves a function
for whistleblowers. So, we saw uh last
year how a bunch of AI whistleblowers
went and worked with Senator Grassley's
office to raise concerns. Um this is a
this great exception to an NDA. Um and
we know that many uh smaller tech
companies are afraid of reprisal by a
big tech company. Um and so being able
to have a kind of confidential
conversation with your member of
Congress is really helpful there. Um
also want to emphasize like our members
love hearing from inventors and
entrepreneurs. like you have this great
idea, you're achieving the American
dream, and if there's something that's
in your way, uh members of Congress want
to hear about that and hear what they
can do. And also, you know, we're
talking in a in the context of Federal
Trade Commission is is hobbled. We don't
have transparency there. There's
transparency functions that uh the
Federal Trade Commission can serve. You
can come talk to us about what you're
seeing in the market and, you know, we
may send off a letter to the Department
of Justice. may take a little bit of
time to respond, but if we send a letter
publicly about a company, that affects
people's actions right away. Um, you
know, we may not have passed a lot of
tech laws, but we've had a lot of focus
on tech, which still changes attitudes
and practices even if we don't have a
law. Yeah. I mean, I think, sorry to
just like keep going, but I mean, I
think since right, like many years ago
when we sort of first had like the
Facebook hearings where Mark Zuckerberg
sort of like awkwardly sat before
judiciary and commerce and people were
like, "What are we talking about?"
Right? like there's been a lot of sort
of movement forward with members and
like understanding of tech issues and
sort of like nuances you heard from
members who were here today. So, you
know, come tell us your stories and like
let's see what we can do. Yeah. One
important thing to remember is anecdotes
really do rule the day. Uh we can talk
to members all day long about facts and
they're going to remember that one story
that they heard from uh someone that
they just shook hands with once and
that's going to really move them day in
and day out. Yeah. I think a lot of
founders see like you know these big
like the Zuckerberg for example or these
bigam these big examples someone going
in front of testifying in front of
Congress and I think that that's how you
have to engage and I don't think a lot
of people realize kind of back to what
you said David it's a lot of like smile
and dial um like in sales I mean just
pick up the phone and start calling
these people and especially if they're
your actual representative it's someone
on their staff's job to actually you end
up in a database and they have to
ultimately reply u to what you're
talking about I've heard some horror
stories too of a lot of founders from
it's actually kind of the other side
like you mentioned sometimes it's a
negative signal to have a lobbyist.
Heard a couple horror stories of uh
later stage founders who show up their
company's already worth billions of
dollars and they just kind of show up on
a road show just to kind of sell their
book and they're not even really
prepared to have an ask. And so I think
a lot of uh a lot of early stage
companies might be really I think um
surprised to find out how well they're
received especially if they're doing
something and they're wellprepared and
earnest and just kind of show up. Yeah.
I mean, uh, members of Congress work on
behalf of everyone in their district,
even if that person is a founder or not.
Um, so talking to them is key. We need a
should have a a YC, Gary. We need like a
YC. Uh, I don't know, needs to be part
of like the first couple weeks or
something like that. How to hack
Washington? Um, back to Andrea. So, so
do founders often get in touch with the
EC and, you know, directly um, you know,
talking about non-compliance. I mean
talking about sort of fear of reprisal.
Um how do you guys is is there a lot of
inbound or do you guys kind of have to
is it a lot of sort of pulling
information out of people? Yeah. So I
mean developers and you know third
parties uh generally get in touch a lot
with us. Um we hear a lot from them and
we do want to hear from them because
ultimately they are the beneficiaries of
the DMA. So they are the ones uh that we
we work for effectively. Um so I have to
say that I would like to hear from them
even more. Um, and I can give an
example. I mean, so the the other day,
so we we adopted these specification
decisions, um, and they were on Hacker
News, uh, and on the same day, Eric
Mijikoski, who's the the founder of of
Pebble, um, published an article
complaining about the fact that Apple
does not give enough interoperability to
give a good experience with the future
Pebble smart watches. And so our
measures were addressing precisely the
kind of complaints that that Eric was
making. And you know it turns out that
his complaints got like three times the
up votes that our measures got on on
Hacker News. I mean and of course like I
mean no no no offense. Um but this shows
that I think uh it's also to us to kind
of you know publicize better our work um
in the sense that we want this we want
developers to tell us first of all what
they need third second whether there is
a problem in the compliance solutions
that gatekeepers uh put in place. So now
again the the DMA is already law so it
it is already in force but of course
there is a lot of discussion to be had
on implementation right how do we
implement the DMA in a way that actually
works and especially for obligations
that are very technical like
interpability data portability David was
was speaking before it is absolutely
crucial that these obligations are
implemented in a way that works for
developers for founders for builders
right otherwise we will not achieve you
what is the the the the desired outcome
of the DMA which is innovation and a
level playing field and I know Eric he's
our he was our badge partner in YC is a
great guy um you know it's interesting
I'm thinking about this in the same way
that you know uh companies I think some
of this real secret to success of YC and
broadly Silicon Valley is you end up
building these dense tr like high trust
networks of people who can who can share
information and and in some ways what
we're doing you know with what YC is
doing here and more broadly speaking I I
moved I moved to DC for love. I fell in
love with a girl who lives here and
works here. So that's why why I ended up
here and not not for my career. But it's
been interesting for the last year and a
half just seeing a lot more folks with
my background, technical,
entrepreneurial background, realizing
there's a huge opportunity to come to
town here and build the same dense trust
decentralized trust but trust networks
who understand sort of this tribal
knowledge that again as like a guy from
the Midwest who first was trying to get
into tech. I didn't know you know what a
safe note was or what any of this stuff
but you learn it through those you know
those those friendship networks and the
same thing I think these like startup
what's interesting for YC's opportunity
is to keep doing this kind of stuff in
DC and let everyone know like it's
probably a lower barrier to entry for
example you don't have to hire a
lobbyist for a bajillion dollars um I
mean I would really like to see at some
point you know developers that can come
to us or even especially you know get in
touch with gatekeepers to make use of
their rights just as naturally as today
they file an issue on GitHub, right? Or
like they choose an open source license.
I mean, these are all things that
developers do today and we want to see
that kind of culture, compliance culture
to move also in terms of antitrust and
the DMA. Yeah, just a lot of people just
don't know this is this is an option.
Um, kind of jump ball to every No, Dave,
what's up? I just wanted to echo that
because I think you mentioned defending
your rights. It's such an important way
for founders and small businesses to
think about what the antitrust laws
provide to them, right? So it's it's a
bill of economic rights. You have the
right to build a business and compete on
the merits and if you have a better
product win, right? That's really
foundational. I think we've heard a
number of senators talk about that
today. And we don't really know how your
rights are being violated until you come
and tell us about that conduct that is
excluding you from a market. And then we
can kind of start that process. And I
think as uh Senator Holly talked about,
when you actually put the rights of
founders or entrepreneurs against the
sort of protection of the monopolist,
the rights are going to win. Totally.
It's also good to note that um you know,
we're talking here from kind of a point
of view of DC and Brussels, but we also
have the states here in the United
States and they're passing laws and
they're competing against each other to
ensure that their own laws are enforced
and to enact laws that better protect
their populace. Um, so sometimes getting
in touch with your state legislature or
your your AG, your attorney general back
home could be a faster way of having
process and we pay attention to state
laws what the AGs are bringing as well.
There's a great piece of work that the
Foundation for American Innovation
recent put out the state permitting
handbook um where Thomas Hawkman went
went through and there's there's you
know basically came up plan for sort of
hack local permitting and I think a lot
of companies just don't realize these op
these uh resources are out there. So
with an with a minute and 24 seconds
left sort of jump ball um you know not
to beg the question too much but is the
sort of conversation absurd on its face
you know how how can small businesses
really compete um against these
companies that just have like billions
of dollars and and
um and you know effectively grow in in a
town that seems to only be run on money
or we squeeze the juice on that question
because I think I
I'll just say, you know, you put it that
way, but it's not just about money,
right? Ideas, uh, the better they are,
the easier they carry, right? So, no
matter how loud of a mic microphone bad
ideas might have in some of these
debates, yeah, good ideas will kind of
propagate. And we're already seeing that
success, I think, in the last six or
eight years of antitrust enforcement. A
lot of success from small and there's a
benefit to working together, right? Why
combinator can be a voice because
they're representing the point of view
of tons of startups you know uh promot
and others also work together to say
seeing all from the same that we are
seeing the same anti-competitive abuses
in the market please do something um and
so that's really quite low cost just
adding your company's name to a group or
um you know joining in a call to action
uh doesn't require lobbyists required
full-time policy person but can have a
really outsized impact. I also think we
need to regulate sort of regulate right
size. I think that's what Senator Holly
was suggesting though I don't speak for
him because I don't work for him. Um,
but you know, I think that it doesn't
have to be, you know, like the free
market forever and, you know, that's it
or like full on, you know, DMA for
example, right? Like there are room
there's room for sort of like smart
approaches in between, which is what my
boss has been trying to work with folks
on commerce and judiciary to do. Um, and
so, you know, it doesn't mean it has to
be all or nothing, right? So in in the
case I think of of of the DMA um I mean
again it's really about making use of
the rights that are already established
by law and also of the implementation
compliance implementations that
gatekeepers have put in place. So I
don't know how many founders today know
that actually under the DMA they can
submit an interoperability request for
Apple. So Apple has an official platform
an official portal to actually submit
these interoperability requests. So if
they need anything they can do that
under the DMA and you know then we also
have visibility on that and then we can
get in touch right. So I mean these are
very concrete steps that they can take.
Well with that guys I think we're the
only thing in between you guys and the
happy hour maybe one more. So let's
we'll we'll cut it off there but thank
you so much for your time. Everyone
round of applause please for my esteemed
panelists. Thank you guys.