Title: Fireside with Boom Founder & CEO Blake Scholl
Video ID: bk0OWFPqhfU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bk0OWFPqhfU
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T17:59:33Z
Duration: PT15M26S
Views: 407
Likes: 11
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 438

Description:
Interviewed by Matt Stoller — Research Director, American Economic Liberties Project (AELP).

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

All right. Well, I am so excited to do
this. Uh, thank you, Luther, for
inviting me to to interview Blake. And
this is an amazing event. Um, I want to
start with a basic observation about
what is right with America. To introduce
Blake. Um, so I don't know if you guys
have seen this quote, but it was
something along the lines of the
greatest minds of my generation have
spent their time trying to get people to
click on ads. Was a couple years ago. I
remember nodding vigorously at that. So
the ads are very important, but no one
likes them. No one was ever going to put
a dynamic advertising system in a
museum. But as little boys, all of us
love airplanes. They are cool, big metal
things that somehow can lift off, and
that is amazing. What kind of 8-year-old
doesn't love that? And historically and
in terms of American power and business,
the Wright brothers are and uh they are
iconic. They will always be iconic. They
are in the pantheon of American giants.
But building an an airplane is
incredibly expensive. And until
recently, the people we have prioritized
in our economic system are those who
invested in capital light business
models, ad clicking, stuff like that. So
with that, it's uh great to be here and
interview Blake Scho, the founder of
Boom Supersonic. It is a company that is
not only in the aerospace industry, but
doing it with a radically different
approach. And here's what I love about
Blake's story. Before getting into this
business, he was at Groupon in Amazon
and he was a pioneer in automated
digital ad buying and after looking at a
model of the Concord in a museum, he
decided to teach himself aerospace
engineering. Um, that's what the Wright
brothers did actually. They invented it.
So what Blake has done uh is actually
the great story of innovation that is so
hard in America today to actually take
the mind and the energy that was so
focused on clicking on ads and turning
it towards the sky towards something big
and real and powerful and awesome. So
that's what's always been right with
America and I think I hope that you're
setting a trend uh in what business
leaders seek to do that's so exciting to
be here. Um, and I hope policy makers
start seeing the value of capital
intensive businesses like boom. So I got
to get in a couple of questions here. So
first of all um why does supersonic
flight matter um to America to
passengers to business?
Uh I think because life happens in
person and you know I think having lived
through the pandemic and now fortunately
we've gotten back to being in person uh
being there uh with other humans really
really matters and you know I think the
world would be much much better if more
people could go more places more often.
Like imagine a world in which our kids
grow up um not just having you know
heard about other cultures in classes or
on YouTube videos but actually having
friends from other continents. Uh,
imagine we could get to Sydney,
Australia as easily as we could get to
Hawaii today. Imagine we could go to
London, uh, have a dinner meeting and
come back and tuck our kids into bed
that night. Uh, that is what supersonic
flight enables. Um, and you everybody I
know wants it. We just have to have it
in a way that's affordable, sustainable,
safe, uh, and profitable for airlines.
So, I was I was I was recently in the in
the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum and
I uh I saw Concord, right? And they're
they're these weird looking planes. Um
but it was it was really luxury. You
mean beautiful? Amazing. Amazing pl I
mean they were really cool. All planes
are cool, right? Um but they uh it was
luxury travel, right? It was for a very
small group of people. What is your
vision for what you're doing, the
industry that you're sort of creating?
Yeah. Well, ultimately we want everyone
from the president on down to every
family to be able to benefit from
supersonic flight. And um you I I have a
radical view in the history of
aerospace. I think Concord killed
supersonic flight and I think Apollo
killed space
exploration and um you know if you got
both of those were 1969 moon landing and
Concord's first flight and I think if
you'd stopped anybody in the street in
1969 and said well what do you think
it's going to be like in 2025? Nobody
would have predicted that we can't go to
the moon and we can't fly supersonic. Uh
right. It's it's utterly insane. And uh
and yet both of those projects were cold
war era national prestige glory projects
uh where the specs were set by
government not by private industry. And
there was no sustainable commercial
story. Uh you the moon landing we all
know was done with like a percentage of
GDP. It was obviously not commercial. Uh
Concord pretended to be commercial but
wasn't actually. So, this was the French
and British government's joint venture.
Um, it's it's remarkable it worked at
all because usually when the French and
British governments get together, it's a
war, right? Um, not an airplane. Um, but
they they delivered a hundred seat
airplane with like little cramped seats.
You might think they're like out of the
back of like Ryionaire. Um, and a
$20,000 ticket and a really good
champagne list. Um, and you know, even
New York to London, which is like the
best route for like high-end fast
travel, the airplane flew on average
half empty. Um, so, so it just was
economically a bridge to nowhere. And
then the world, uh, learned all the
wrong lessons. They learned that
supersonic flight isn't practical. Um,
and then, uh, at once the American
competitor to Concord was canled, it
fermented this like protectionist thing
and we like, you know, claimed that
sonic booms are like terrible. So, we
banned supersonic flight in the US. Uh,
it should have been a noise limit. So,
we put a speed limit in place. It's one
of the worst regulations ever. Um, and
then, uh, and then, you know, and then
all the mythology was you can't make an
economic supersonic airplane, but it's
just not true. So, you're trying to make
how how do you make it economical? Yeah.
So, so uh the first off, I got to make
the airplane more efficient um so the
fairs can come way down so more people
can afford to fly. So instead of a
hundred seats uh and $20,000 each,
overture is 64 seats and uh fair is more
like $5,000. In other words, what people
already pay in business class today. And
they're like tens of millions of people
who fly around in business class now. Uh
who so hate that flights are long that
they like, you know, pay extra for a bed
because they want to sleep through the
flight, right? Um, but if you if you
make the flight twice as fast, you you
can have a much better bed than one at
home uh before you have to leave and you
can be awake on the airplane and have a
nice seat. And so that's kind of what
makes the economics work is uh uh get
the fairs down 64 seats so it's easy for
airlines to fill the seats not just on a
couple routes but on hundreds around the
planet. Um and then uh and then that can
that can work at scale. Like we think
we're going to have to build over a
thousand of these overure airliners and
that's just version one. There'll be a
version, you know, there'll be future
versions that are bigger with lower
fairs. There'll be future versions that
are smaller for private use. Uh, you
know, overture one that's all business
class is really just the starting point.
So, is the technology that you're
developing for these uh for these
airplanes, is it a thousand small things
that have made it more efficient or is
it one big leap or is there sort of
gradations? So, the most shocking thing
is we didn't really invent anything.
We're taking 20-year-old 78 Boeing 787
level technology and uh and using it to
build a supersonic jet. So this is
carbon fiber composite airframe. This is
digitally defined aerodynamics. This is
digital flight controls. This is
turbopan engines. We didn't invent any
of those things. They've been around for
a long time. There's already regulatory
approval pathways for all these things.
There's supply chain for all these
things. So what you know what we did is
we you know we took this proven
technology. Uh we designed an airliner
out of it and then we shrunk that design
down and we built a prototype out of it.
So that's what we did, you know, earlier
this year. We broke the sound barrier uh
with a one-third scale, you know,
prototype supersonic jet uh built out of
airliner ready technology. Uh so now
we're scale up, build the airliner. So
you you you don't like the moon landings
and you didn't invent anything. Is that
No, I'm just kidding. I I mean, no, no.
I I I think your point is really
important, which is that the incremental
improvements, combining what already
exists into something new is an act of
creation. Is that a fair statement? I
think so. I I mean, you know, we are
we're inventing a new way to build a
business. We're inventing a new business
model for supersonic flight. You know,
there's there there's a lot at that
level. There's a lot of invention. Mhm.
Uh but I think it's very reassuring for
the the public and for regulators that
there's this thing is not built out of
unoptanium. Right. No, that that's um
you know it's it's very comforting to
hear that all of these tech that all the
component pieces are you know have have
track records. That's right. And I think
if by the way if you look at the
successful um you know hardware
companies that that have that have
started in the last couple decades they
all have this pattern like you know
people think of like SpaceX now and
they're like the crazy thing that is
Starship. That's not where they started.
They started with the Falcon 1, which
was like very conventional. The only
thing that was new was that it was built
by a new company. And you know, Tesla
started with a a Lotus Elise body and a
cell phone battery, right? Like like you
need the and now they do, you know,
crazy things, but um uh but if you want
to go create a new hardware business
from scratch, it actually makes a lot of
sense not to make a big technical bet on
day one. Yeah. Yeah, I mean you just say
a laptop is just a bunch of things from
a desktop jammed into a a different
case, but it's a fundamentally different
product.
So I I want to touch on Boeing because
it's something that I think has really
crystallized the challenge that America
faces. And what's so great about your
venture is that you are coming into I
don't know if you see yourself as a
competitor of Boeing or not or creating
a new um uh sort of path or a new part
of an industry but uh but Boeing is
really I think on people's minds who are
thinking about aerospace and so um how
have Boeing's problems and challenges
and opportunities sort of changed the
environment for new entrance into
aerospace and change the regulatory
environment? Yeah, I I think it's really
sad what's happened at Boeing. I mean,
this used to be just one of the great
American companies and they're still the
number one US exporter. Um, they are
economically hugely important. National
security hugely important, but they've
so completely lost their way. I mean, it
has been more than 20 years since Boeing
has launched a new uh a new airliner.
More than 20 years. Like, if you if
Apple goes like 12 months without
redesigning the iPhone, people are like,
they can't invent anymore. But like we,
you know, the number one US exporter
stopped building new products and
they've only done these tweaks and we've
all read the same headlines about how
unsuccessful the tweaks have been. Uh,
and I I think it's a I think it's a huge
problem for the country and I I hope
Boeing refineses their way. But right
right now, like I think as a country,
we've got all of our eggs in the Boeing
basket and it's got like a hole in the
bottom.
Um, so one of the new entrance into
aerospace is sort of a bunch of Chinese
companies or you could call it one
company, however you want to
characterize the Chinese system. Um, and
I am I think a lot of us are deeply
concerned about China. Um, but it's
undeniable that their recent industrial
model has delivered massive
manufacturing capacity and and
innovation. Um, so what is China doing
right that America could learn from? Um,
well, first off, I just want to paint
the the story. I don't think it's well
told. Uh I think we I think we know what
China did with, you know, consumer
electronics manufacturing and
semiconductors and we know what a
terrible situation that is now and how
hard it is to get back in the US after
we lost it. They're running the same
playbook in airplanes. Um they are uh
they're shipping a 737 clone right now.
They're working on a 787 clone and over
the weekend they announced they're
working on a supersonic jet clone too.
And uh and so uh we we are watching kind
of the slow motion Chinese takeover of
flight. Um uh and we are you know we we
we are in real danger of seeding
American leadership there. Um but you
know if I think about what's done right
um they've gotten out of their own way.
You know the the in the US we've banned
supersonic flight over land which is why
no one's done what we're uh what we're
doing at boom. you know, we were kind of
bold enough to start and say we'll we'll
find a way around that or through it. Um
uh but you know, when when China
launches a supersonic jet, they don't
have that 1970s regulation to contend
with. And so I think, you know, I think
a lot of innovation is held back by
being in our own
way. So as you I mean, I know there's
been a lot of discussions about how
America can make things again. And this
is this kind of started um I don't know
1015 years ago. and there's different
kind of moments when people have these
conversations. Um, have you noticed, you
know, you do a lot of fundraising. It's
very capital intensive business. Have
you noticed changes in the discussion
from financiers about what they're
willing to put money into and how
they're thinking about investment? Yeah,
I think I think the eyes are opening
that we have to re-industrialize America
and that there's huge, you know, there's
a huge amount of money be made in that
in that process. Uh, so that is, you
know, I I think it's it's much easier to
start a hardware business today than it
was for me 10 years ago really. um uh is
like a whole bunch of VCs now have
thesis around deep tech and hardware and
you know people have made money in
companies like SpaceX and Tesla and uh
uh and so it's starting to see this is
actually a viable thing but it's also
becoming really clear how important it
is to the country uh like if we look at
how we won World War II we didn't go
into World War II with a defense
industrial base we went into World War
II with a commercial industrial base
that was the envy of the world and you
uh Boeing pivoted and made bombers and
forward and pivoted and made tanks and
uh fighters and uh uh but yet right now
the commercial industrial base that we
used to have is in China and uh and so
the the the I think the most important
thing things like boom can do for the
country is to build a commercial
industrial base that could become the
defense industrial base if we needed it
to be. So there's a there's a little
known story about the Wright brothers
where they spent the first half of their
lives inventing aerospace and that what
they did is incredibly impressive as as
inventors and as thinkers. Um but they
spent the second half of their life
involved in patent litigation. Um yeah
and I'm wonder and that's why one of the
reasons the US invented aerospace but
then really wasn't building very much of
it until I think the 1930s or um so
there's this big gap. How do you think
about the auto industry didn't have that
problem because Henry Ford and the car
companies didn't try to use that their
competitive advantage was different. It
wasn't IP. How do you think about IP in
your business?
Um we do a little bit of patenting stuff
just you know defensively and um because
it's it's weird if we don't have any IP
but but frankly I don't care about it.
Um like our comp our long-term
competitive strategy is always have the
best product um and just you know just
have the the highest possible rate of
invention. And you know my my dream is
that by the time any patent gets issued,
you know, it's already obsolete uh
because we've invented something much
better. Uh so so it's uh we don't we
don't spend hardly any effort on IP. We
spend a lot of effort on product roadmap
and and trying to figure how to build
new things much more quickly and more
efficiently. Well, with that um I think
we're out of time, but uh I am I am
cheering for you. It is so exciting. I
uh to see what you're doing and uh thank
you so much. Well, thank you.