Title: Are Techno Optimism and Populism Incompatible?
Video ID: dpHBSGS6W5c
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dpHBSGS6W5c
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T17:59:44Z
Duration: PT31M36S
Views: 582
Likes: 7
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 828

Description:
An interview with:

Steve Bannon - Former White House Chief Strategist
Rohit Chopra - Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)

Moderated by Joshua Green, Sr. National Correspondent, Bloomberg Businessweek.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thank you all for being here. You ready
to get going?
I'm coming right after you. No, Josh,
let's slow down. Yeah. All right. This
is too fast. Uh, as we look at I thought
Bloomberg was supposed to move fast.
We're moving. We're moving fast. Already
written articles in the last month uh
quoting uh Rohead and Steve. So, I feel
like I'm up to speed. And now I want to
get you guys up to speed too. Uh looking
ahead to this new Trump era. Uh I wanted
to start off by asking you both uh about
an idea that was written up in the
Atlantic yesterday that I think has big
implications for what tech and antitrust
policy uh might look like in the years
ahead. Uh the article suggested there's
been a fusion uh on the right between
MAGA nationalists like Steve and big
tech barons like Elon Musk, Peter Teal
uh and Mark Andre uh all in opposition
to this uh spectre of wokeness that
people on the right are so worked up
about. But the article goes on to
suggest that big tech is actually the
one in the driver's seat and that folks
like Steve are, and I'm quoting the
article here, political sucker fish
riding a whale. Uh my question for you,
Steve, is this true? Are you in the MAGA
crowd beholden to big tech? Or does Elon
Musk's humiliation in Wisconsin last
night begin to weaken his political
standing and his influence on policy in
the Trump presidency? Are you assuming
that someone spends $20 million and goes
where a cheese head on a stage and
bounces around is
humiliated?
Um, okay. The fusion, the whole fusion
crap is pushed by the tech oligarchs.
You know why? They fear populism. They
fear economic nationalism. If we have,
we're in a co we admit we're in a
coalition. It is a coalition, but
there's a much higher probability
that we will have fusion with certain of
the ideas of Ro roit and particularly
Lena Khan and others that have fought uh
you know monopolies have fought
oligarchs for years and I think that's
where the fusion is going to come the um
one of the biggest scourges in our
country are these oligarchs the lords of
easy money on Wall Street the
corporatist and particularly the
apartheid state of Silicon Valley and
it's a huge problem and yes we're in an
un very
uneasy coalition, but it is a coalition.
They were some of them quite central to
our victory in November and they were
also central to our let's say there's a
huge defeat last night uh on the uh in
the Supreme Court race in Wisconsin. So
my question then is if is that you agree
with that? Yeah, I think so. I think if
you look at the
first Trump term, you know, at at the
Federal Trade Commission, for
example, every single time you really
saw the Republicans on the
FTC speaking from a different HIMYM book
than Trump. They were pro-Chinese
manufacturing. They were pro- big tech.
They were pro- big pharma. And then you
saw others who were really trying to
fight against a lot of that money. And
now we think Silicon Valley used to be
lots and lots of little tech. And is it
going to stay that way or is it just
going to be owned by these six dudes?
And Zuckerberg can, you know, wear
whatever chains he want. But I think at
the end of the day, if they control this
whole system, there's big trouble for
our country. You're not going to burrow
out. you're not going to start going to
UFC fights and uh no the fusion no the
fusionism is pushed by we're in a
coalition the fusionism they want us to
be subservient to their interest in teto
feudalism and we're not going to do that
the power we still have here and the
difference in in the first term we've
now evolved this party to be truly a
workingclass and middle class party and
the Democrats have kind of lost that or
lost focus on it they become the
credential class and we need to drive
this point home that's what we're
building a bigger coalition. And I think
if we do our job and somehow we can keep
them together in an uneasy coalition,
although I don't know if that's
possible, we can build a uh we can
redefine politics like in 1932. We're at
that inflection point that is upon us to
do it. And things like last night
obviously are a big setback. Looking
ahead at the policy landscape though, if
Elon and the Six Bros are uh
representing big tech, who who if anyone
is standing up for little tech in the in
the Trump administration? I think you've
got a lot of people. I mean, I think
you've got we've got our new one of our
new FTC uh commissioners are here.
Mark's here. Uh you got our viceroy.
Where's Mike Davis? The fire breather
Mike Dav uh Mike Davis is a fire
breather for the unpopular side. If you
look in the Justice Department, right,
tomorrow I'm going to be over there at
Justice with Omid and others. Gail
Slater. I mean, we have Look, I think
Lena Khan is one of the most important
political figures in this country. And I
think if she had been listened to more
by Democrats, they would have actually
been more competitive against us in
November of 2024. But I think you have a
lot of people that I would call
neorobycians that actually see the
danger of concentration of massive
concentration of personal wealth and
power uh to government power. And look,
let's be blunt.
That was all caused by the Democrat and
most progressive elements of the
Democratic party, the bailouts on Wall
Street in 2008, which which were
unacceptable, and the kind of Fouian
bargain given to the big six dudes to
essentially say you're going to have
monopolistic power. Um, but you we'll
make a deal with you. You have to be at
the cutting edge of that because we're a
hedgeimon. You have to be have the
commanding heights of technology.
Tik Tok shows you they've blown it in
social media. And quite frankly, Deep
Seek, whether it's a Chinese SCOP or if
it's real, shows you that their method,
right, which they threw climate change
overboard, all that overboard for this
mass power of uh of AI is wrong. And now
what do they want? They want a bailout.
They want a $500 billion Mercury program
or Marshall Plan, however they call it.
And they want us to turn the national
labs over to them. Absolutely. Right. So
these guys, they have an unsatiable
appetite for money and power and it's
got to be stopped. And they want to hand
over a playbook that is really Europe's
playbook from the 40s about trying to
have a a click of corporate royalty that
we're supposed to help the entire time.
And I thought America built all of this
because we made sure there was little
companies challenging these big guys and
running them out of business when
they're doing something better. So I
think this is the jump ball right now.
We see it in a few different places, but
if they hollow out and defund some of
these enforcers, they're not going to be
able to go. But let me ask you about
that because you you are taking Are we
taking this over? Are you going to get
some more into this? No. No. I I want to
spice this up a little bit cuz you you
sound like you're half asleep. Um Ru,
you you
you were recently on the receiving end
of the Trump Musk policy approach and so
I'm imagining your view of of of Trump's
approach is a little less rosy when it
comes to big tech than maybe Steve's is.
You told me at the time for a Bloomberg
post I wrote, quote, "Defunding the
police that watch over Wall Street and
big tech will cost consumers billions of
dollars." What's the case you'd make to
folks like Steve and Republicans on the
right for why a robust enforcement
uh regime is necessary? Well, look,
Steve mentioned the bailouts. I think
this a lot of what our discourse is
today, whether we know it or not, comes
from the financial crisis. Amen. And the
big giveaways to those who are already
powerful. In what planet can you
mismanage your business so badly and go
on the other side and become bigger and
more powerful? That's exactly what
happened in 2008. So I really think look
it is really it is a jump ball in so
many places. When Musk and the whoever
took over the
CFPB, the one of the first people they
fired were the tech people, the ones who
were doing the investigations of big
tech companies creating
currency. They were the ones who were
trying to make sure there was open tech
so that small companies could challenge
big banks. So, we're going to see a
fight on both sides, I think, but I
don't know how it's going to turn out if
they keep getting rid of the watchd dogs
and just expect these agencies to be lap
dogs. Okay. So, I want to dig in a
little bit more uh on this idea of of a
struggle between big tech and little
tech uh how it might play out in the
Trump years. And I want to provoke you
both a bit um by offering some
historical context.
Richard
Nixon famously wanted his Justice
Department to threaten investigations of
the major t TV networks in order to
obtain friendlier coverage. Perhaps a
precursor uh to Trump's later threats
against big tech. On the Nixon tapes, we
hear him saying uh a DOJ investigation
quote gives us one hell of a club, a
sort of damocles, uh Nixon called it, to
coersse favorable coverage. Steve, is
that Trump's real aim here? just a
friendlier Facebook and a defanged
Washington Post or are there real
populist instincts um that that might
lean against the power of some of the
big tech companies? I think look, it's
obviously, you know, something that's
being worked out through the Trump
administration. Like I said, we're a
coalition. There's definitely voices on
big tech. They have every lobbyist in
this town, every law firm in this town.
Let's say it's a rigged system. System
is totally rigged. If you want to go up
against big tech now, I'm going to tell
you how tough. Would you talk to him
personally about this? Here here's what
I think is Here's one of the things I
think is important is our going after
the big law firms. We're we're trying to
go after the machinery that has this
system set up to go after the big law
firms. I think we have to go after the
big investment banks, the big hedge
funds, the money center banks. You have
to go after all of them and and
basically, you know, play smashmouth
because they play play smashmouth with
you. This system is run by money and
power. It's run by oligarchic centers in
both Wall Street, the corporatist and
Silicon Valley. And we're just not going
to change it overnight. And there is a
struggle. I mean, you have I would
submit to you that and if you read the
the front two pages of the remedy
section in the Google case and see where
our justice department's coming out, it
kind of stuns me of how
antirust the people we've put in. I
mean, people know I'm a a big admire of
Alina Khan. I don't think we've made
that big a shift. I would love to have
her back. I think she'd be terrific, but
it's we're just a difference in degree,
not so much in kind of what we put in
place today. And I think you're going to
see tough antitrust action taking place.
That's why I think Wall Street's not
enamored. They didn't see the big wave
of M&A and M&A fees coming. So, this is
all but it's always going to be a
struggle. It's who's going to be able to
have muscle politically. In in Florida
six, we were down three points. Uh I
think up to two weeks ago when our show
got involved, Breitbart got involved. We
got our grassroots volunteers out. You
know, Scott Jennings on CNN makes a very
important point about as we've reshaped
this party to be more workingass and in
and middle class. We also are dependent
upon low propensity voters, low
propensity, low information. It's not
they're not degreed or not dumb by low
information. They're just not interested
in politics, right? These people
basically come up for Trump. We have to
have a massive grassroots effort every
time to get them out. Scott's absolutely
correct and this is one of the reasons
we won in Florida six has got it out. So
the power we have to what they called
them sucker fish. Yeah. We have to
deliver you know mass amounts of
grassroots right who are basically
entrepreneurs right the little guy the
little shopkeepers the the the workers.
We have to deliver that and we have to
deliver it consistently. But I think
you're starting to see that that that we
could we did win shouldn't be lost. We
did win overwhelmingly the voter ID in
in Wisconsin last night. Although we
lost we lost I think we got blown out. I
mean since I've known you, you've been
really outspoken. You just mentioned it
now about the power of money in
politics. And I'm interested in how that
applies to tech and antitrust policy.
What is there evidence you can point me
to that Trump is serious about pursuing
a crackdown he's talked about in the
past and won't be bought off by
inauguration look at the
FTC Listen it's a Melania documentary
we're in an imperial capital that the
populist nationalist movement did not
create okay this is an empire exactly
what the revolutionary generation and
the framers and the founders of our
nation warned us against we evolved into
if the if the revolutionary ary
generation of framers came back to say
they'd spit on the floor with how we've
allowed this country to evolve. And so
this our movement is relatively young
and having political power. But look at
look at our justice department. Look at
the look at some of the commissioners
we're putting on there. These people are
almost as big a fire breathers as Roit
and Lena Khan. That's what I think is so
shocking. Is is the personnel the real
focus that you see personnel's policy in
this town, right? Particularly working.
go back and read, look at what we're
doing at Google, both in the courts in
Northern Virginia and in DC. Read, you
should definitely want to read the
summary that um um the folks wrote. It's
quite powerful and I think it shows you
the the beginning of a framework of what
I would call a populist nationalist idea
about antirust and about the about
taking on taking on taking on these
oligarchs. Let me ask you, like people
don't think of you as this necessarily,
but you were actually in a in a manner
of speaking a two-time Trump official
because you served in the Trump FTC and
you had and you had a long and glorious
what was it like 7-day run as director
of CF 13? Oh, that's that's more than a
scaramucci. So you look, but you in in
all seriousness, you've had, it seems to
me, a variety of experiences with with
Trump and his policy impulses when it
comes to antirust and other things. I
remember uh you were at FTC uh when they
first went after Facebook. Uh you did
some some cracking down on companies
that had abused uh the Made in America
label, I remember that Republicans were
against, but I believe Trump spoke out
in favor of that. Um so you've you've
seen all sides of the man. I mean, how
how serious do you think he is about
pursuing an agenda that would really
police big tech and and and stand up for
little tech companies, a lot of whom
don't think they really have a voice?
Well, I'm not I'm not his therapist or
psychoanalyst, but I guess I'd say this.
When you actually look at the
people, the people that were put on the
Federal Trade Commission in
2018, most of them were voting with big
pharma, big tech, those guys. Over time,
you saw some shifts. We ended up voting
out the Facebook complaint, two
Democrats, one Republican against two
very pro monopoly Republicans. So, we'll
see how it plays out. There are some
warning signs. I have no idea why they
would fire Well, I was going to say the
two federal trade
commissioners when you fire the
Democrats from the Well, it's also like
why fire them? They're the ones who are
also on board with going after some of
this concentrated power, standing up for
little companies, for little
pharmacists, for little grocerers, and
the list goes on and on. I don't know
what that was about, but I think this is
now the question. Are we going to see a
repeat of 2018 or is Steve going to be
right that there's going to be some big
change? See, I think that's an evolution
of our party. I think we're getting more
populist and more nationalist. Look at
16 we we came out of nowhere to win.
We've had it in those four years that
interregnum President Trump and you see
the relationships he built and who who
he's put in. People should understand I
am banned on every platform. I'm banned
in perpetuity on Facebook, on
YouTube. Yeah. Twitter, um Spotify, I
can go through every I'm banned. The
show is the number one or number two
podcast in the country essentially. You
know, if you look at Pod Save America,
we're generally in back of them. I'm
banned everywhere. I was
debanked after January after we uh after
President Trump went back to Mara Lago.
All my banks fired me. All my law firms
fired me. I had bigname law firms all
fired me. All my credit cards were
cancelled. I went to federal prison.
Right? I've seen the power of the state.
And you know what I say to them? Go [ __ ]
yourself. Right? We're going because you
have to otherwise they're out to crush
you. Don't think I'm any different than
any of you guys. you raise your head up
against the apparatus and they're going
to do the exact same thing to you. This
is why I think there's much more
commonality. The potential fusion I
think we do have is much deeper behind
the scenes and much deeper as we get
back to actually what is populist, what
is economic nationalism, how do you
defend the little guy, how you defend
the entrepreneur, how do we get back to
our entrepreneurial roots as a country,
right? And it's a struggle and we're not
going to agree on everything culturally.
We're not going to agree on everything
politically, but when I look at the
battlefield, I feel pretty good. I feel
that there's a natural reaction to to
the Facebooks and and to the Silicon
Valley crowd and to the Wall Street
crowd. So, I think there's I think
there's uh I think there's a great
future for populism, how we define it,
and economic nationalism. Let's let's
broaden the aperture a little bit beyond
the US. Steve, you've been quite active
in supporting populist right-wing
causes, uh not just here, but across the
globe and in Europe. Uh Trump has too uh
supporting uh populist politicians. In
December when he nominated Gail Slater,
he said, quote, "Big tech has run wild
for years, stifling competition uh in
our most innovative sector." I think he
posted that on True Social. Given that
Europe is grappling with many of the
same policy issues in regard to big
tech, do you support and should Trump
support the EU's efforts to crack down
uh on big players like Apple and Google
in an effort to open up markets
overseas?
I do agree with trying to trying to uh
stop these people anywhere we can
because I think they got too much power.
I would like to see instead of you know
you have 75 electric vehicle companies
but you have one search company right we
should have a 100 search companies we
should have you know Facebook we should
have 100 alternatives it the only thing
that holds me back about the Europeans
is that there's no more corrupt system
than the EU and what they do right these
are still the it's still the monarchists
it's still the aristocracy right that
most of our families you know many
generations ago came away from this is
why so detest uh the established order
in Europe and I'm a big supporter of
kind of these right-wing populist
nationalists which each one's different
right and each one's got its own
characteristics as it should in these
countries but we have a long fight over
there look it shouldn't be lost anybody
they try to put Trump in prison for 300
years Balssonaro's on trial for his life
they're going to find him guilty in the
show trial they put him in a prison he's
going to be assassinated or they're
going to attempt to assassinate him and
and Le Pin he's up by 20 points in the
poll and they're putting Le Pin now has
a four-year prison sentence
and can't run for reelection. And that
that may all be worked out, but that is
what this kind of judicial what I call
insurrection uh is is coming against the
populist right and we have to just power
through it. I don't think we should
outsource anything to Europe. But I will
say this, when they've been doing all
their committees after their laws, the
people who are actually going and using
that process to challenge big
gatekeepers from squaltching them out
are a lot of a little American companies
because they want access to that market
too. So I don't know, but we that
doesn't mean we shouldn't do our own
work here. We should not allow, you
know, Facebook's Libra currency scheme
to come back again. We should not have
these new types of dollars that big tech
companies control and can wall everyone
out of. We should be passing laws and
doing work here in Washington, in every
single state. And there are so many
issues where I think there's a lot of
agreement. child and teen privacy and
exploitation of them, counterfeit goods
and labeling. I mean, the list goes on
and on. And the big tech companies have
fought every single step of the way, and
we should fight against that. All right.
It's Liberation Day. I'm sure you all
have have have heard. Um, I' I'd love to
get a preview from Steve, but what I
really want to uh ask you about is can
the US and Europe effectively regulate
tech companies at the same time that
they're waging a trade war? Or will
Trump wind up inadvertently helping big
tech in an effort to jam the EU?
Um, I I think they're I think they're
kind of two separate things. I think
today, and I think in the Rose Garden at
4:00, we're going to find out. I'm not
so sure a decision's been made. I I
mean, I'm for reciprocity and I realize
there's some legal issues with that
because I want to expose to the world
how we've been taken advantage of by the
political class in the United States,
the globalists in on Wall Street with
these uh with these trade relationships
with people that we pay for their
defense that have hosed hosed us for
decade after decade after decade and
that all rolls down to the little guy.
So, I'm for reciprocity and tough
reciprocity. I don't think that may
happen. I think there may be some tiered
of 20% some tiered system which will be
fine and they'll use uh the emergency
measures to implement that but I think
we have to
uh think about and focus on bringing
high value added manufacturing jobs back
here to the United States and not
assembly jobs. You know the guys at Ford
[ __ ] and moan all the time, well we
manufacture all this and we're going to
lose a billion dollars. No, you don't.
You assemble. We need to bring high
value added manufacturing jobs back here
to the United States of America. People
say we're we're manufacturing more than
ever and there's four there's 400,000
unpaid. No, we assemble. We need to
manufacture here. We need to rebuild the
greatness of our industrial base and we
can do it. At the same time, we have to
break up tech and uh and and and give
more access to capital entrepreneurs. We
can do all that. This is none of this.
The Republicans when I first got into
the politics here with Andrew Breitbart
12, 14 years ago, this kind of Austrian
school of economics and all this, it was
like they thought it was part it was a
natural property. They they thought this
was was like the second law of
thermodynamics. It's not. It's all human
agency. We've proven this in this
populist movement and getting people
engaged and involved. The little guy
who's engaged and involved now in
politics. So we can do this and we can
build a system that's closer to the
American plan that Alexander Hamilton
and and the great founders of our
country set up in the 19th century that
we can recreate here and become a
economic superpower again a true
economic superpower based upon people
not that what in the last 6 months the
top 1% have accreted another $4.5
trillion dollars of wealth to themselves
more than gone to the bottom 50%.
We have a capitalist system or
quoteunquote capitalist system with no
capitalist. And that's what we have to
change. And we can change. All of this
can be done. Don't think we have to take
down the system. And to do that, you
have to be relentless. You have to be
prepared to be banned, to be debanked,
to be uh shut out, and to go to prison.
If you're not prepared to do that,
you're not to prepared to take on the
system and win. We're getting back to
the question of Europe. Is is Trump
willing to let the EU crack down on
American companies like Google, like
Apple, or will he dig his heels and and
want to retaliate? I I I Well, I don't
think it's going to be retaliation
against that. I think it's going to be
retaliation against uh manufacturing and
the German car companies and all that.
You don't think that you don't think
that bleeds over into tech policy
to a degree, but I don't think we'll
see. Also, the big big ticket item is on
China. Yeah. So we'll right now you have
a lot of the largest tech giants
saying you need to listen to us and
favor us to compete with China. I think
if anyone gets distracted by that
argument, we are in trouble. But here
here's the here's the horrible thing of
that argument. Their failure in being
given the Fouian pact of allowing them
to become oligarchs. They failed in they
failed in social media. Clearly, they're
not as good and they failed in AI. They
want a bailout at least$500 billion
dollars and the national labs would be
turned over them. They also put the gun
to your head and say, "Hey, you can't
regulate us now because you need
national champions because the Chinese
Communist Party has a fleet around
Taiwan. That's a struggle we're going to
have to go through and we can't we
cannot agree to that. We can't agree to
a bailout. We can't agree to turning the
national labs over to them, the weapons
labs for AI. And we certainly can't
genulect as as you're so rightly
pointing out about the the issue with
the Chinese Communist Party. Uh Roit,
Democrats have been sponded uh by the
results of the November election. Uh um
with with the exception of uh last
night's victory in Wisconsin. It's it's
been a pretty rough ride. Uh yeah, a
number of folks I talked to do see
glimmers uh of hope on the antitrust
front uh with the nomination of Gail
Slater. other folks we've talked about.
Um, what are your thought? I see you've
talked a lot about this idea of a
populist cross party alliance. How what
are your thoughts on that? How realistic
do you think it
is as you look ahead at the landscape
over the next couple of years and uh,
you know, as as somebody who's worked
under Trump, who's who's clashed with
Elon, uh, who thinks a lot about the
policy issues at the heart of all this,
are you hopeful? Are you are you
despondent? Well, how should people
think about this? I mean, look, I I'm
happy that some of them are using the
policy ideas developed by Lena Khan and
others who really came and started and
lit a match on all of this. And if that
is leading others to change good, I just
want to go back to I still think it
comes down to you saw anger across the
board after the Wall Street bailouts,
Occupy Wall Street, Tea Party, the whole
thing. Most people yesterday in
Congress, every single Republican except
nine of them voted to like raise
overdraft fees for people. There is
maybe going to be agreement on certain
places, but right now those big
oligarchs and big corporate royalty are
still calling the shots in Washington.
Do you disagree with that? No. They own
this city. If you try to go after them
legally, you can't get a law firm
because they hire the law firms. They
have all the lobbyists. They have
tremendous power in Capitol Hill. That's
why our movement is in its very early
stages. And with President Trump at the
top of the ticket, we can win national
elections. As it proved last night,
since we have low propensity voters, we
built those low propensity voters. I'm
the first to admit we have a tough time
otherwise. And we have to build an
apparatus that can do that. But it's
going to come from I think it was one in
only one in the Senate. Josh Holly, I
think, is the only person that voted
only Republican. So, we have a ton of
work to do. I'm not sure so many of the
elected officials in the House or the
Senate are populist economic
nationalists. There still were still run
in a neoliberal neocon
uh mentality. But I think I believe and
you look at Stler, you look at yourself,
Leo Khan, I believe since I would posit
the Democratic party in the official
apparatus of it abandoned you guys who
had some great ideas. great ideas that
we as populist nationalists are getting
a whole team to hopefully implement at
least some of them that there's much
more that fusion to me is more important
than the fusion with the big tech bros
but we have to deal with political
reality as we have it right now but our
our party is only going to become more
workingass and more middle class and I
think that'll tend to the future our
time is ticking down um uh but Trump
also got rid of populists like uh Roit
so Roit you Steve's talked a lot about
the the positive idea of an alliance,
but just as a last question, what's the
worst case scenario for you? What do you
what do you stay up at night worrying
about?
Uh, note that we only have 90 seconds.
Well, to me, I I'm actually I'm not
crying and despondent. All of us are
working on how we figure out how to
reclaim power and to actually make sure
that this economy is working. And I
think that we'll see if anyone in this
administration will do it. I'm going to
be watching on big mergers like Capital
One Discover. I'm going to be watching,
like Steve is saying, the Google case,
Facebook case. There's some places where
I'm going to be watching really closely
to see um but I really hope that this is
the the status quo is so broken and just
we need to move and turn the page. You
know, Jade Sherman said yesterday
because I've been a huge proponent of
this tax extension of the taxes that
given where we are with cuts that have
to be made are just not going to be
made. Given the financial situation of
having to refinance all this debt and
the and what it's the burden is putting
on working-class middle-ass people that
I don't see any scenario that we can
extend the tax cuts for the upper
bracket. It can't happen. And Jay
Sherman went around yesterday and I love
Jake Sherman. I think he's fantastic. He
said he couldn't find one representative
in the Republic side. They they laughed
at the idea. They laughed at the idea.
Chip Roy came on War Room this morning
and absolutely agreed with me and says
behind the scenes there a lot of people.
The litmus test for me early on besides
all the great work the guys at Justice
Department are doing on on Google and
other things like that and the FTC is
this tax situation. If the wealthy are
not prepared to help us get control of
spending, particularly defense spending,
and actually align defense spending with
our hemispheric defense that President
Trump has laid out, the defense budget
has to be cut. And I say this as a guy
that spent eight years as a naval
officer. My daughter went to West Point.
I'm not a dove. The defense budget's out
of control. It has to be cut right
before you touch anything else. And we
have to raise taxes. We cannot cut
extend the tax cuts for the wealthy.
their taxes have to increase. All right,
on that note, let's wrap it up. Thank
you both. Thank you guys for listening.