Title: The AI Agents Helping Home Services Book More Jobs
Video ID: EHp1HgwCo9I
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHp1HgwCo9I
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2026-06-29T16:00:39Z
Duration: PT39M6S
Views: 6881
Likes: 122
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1191

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
>> Today we're sitting down with the
founders of Avoca. They're a winter 23
YC team that in the last 2 years has
made it to eight digits in revenue and
actually growing so fast it's very rare
to get to 2x growth in a single 90-day
period and here we are. Welcome Apurv.
Welcome Tyson.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Really happy to be here and
excited to be in this podcast.
>> So off the bat obviously incredible
growth. You know, what is Avoca?
>> At Avoca, we are building the AI
workforce for the physical economy
starting with home services. So the idea
is think of like the entire world of you
have your HVAC businesses, your
plumbing, your electrical, all of these
service businesses. We think that the
entire industry is about to change with
how
AI is going to be working with humans to
get jobs done and that's what we're
building.
>> It sounds like one of the things that
they really sort of struggle with is you
know, someone has a problem, they
actually call a lots of different home
services and nobody responds.
>> That's exactly the starting insight that
me and Tyson found which is that both
our backgrounds, so I grew up in
Michigan and Tyson grew up in
Pennsylvania and both of our
backgrounds, we were working in
companies like this where we saw that
actually phone calls is one of the
biggest ways that all these businesses
get revenue and so our insight was if we
can build an AI agent that goes and
answers the phone, we can be adding
value to these customers in the most
meaningful way which is new revenue.
>> And so there's definitely something
special about home services that you
figured out. Did you expect to sort of
end up in this particular vertical? You
know, it sounds like you had some
experience there.
>> I think home services was definitely you
know, one of one of the things where
both Apurv and I you know, from our
family backgrounds we had that
experience. So my mom was actually an
acupuncturist, one of the first ever
acupuncturists in York, Pennsylvania and
growing up I I her one-man CSR army. So
helping her answer a lot of phone calls.
So, we always realized that this was an
idea that, you know, made a ton of sense
in terms of
automating
the role of the receptionist. I think
what really made us discover home
services was we actually support a
variety of different industries first.
We looked into restaurants and through
kind of talking to a bunch like door
knocking, we actually scaled 100
restaurants. But, home services was the
industry that found us in a way in the
sense that in home services a single
phone call can be worth 20 to 30,000
dollars, whereas in the world of
restaurants a single call is only 30, 40
dollars. And 85% of the revenue of a
home service business comes from the
phone calls, whereas for restaurants
it's only like, you know, 20, 30%.
>> I want to double-click on something that
actually I think is a really powerful
model broadly. Obviously, AI software
starts off as software. In your
particular case, there is a public
company out there called ServiceTitan
that is just the software. But, you
know, they're only 1% of wallet spend. I
mean, when you're talking about these
service providers, you know, they want
to do the service. They don't really
want to have to manage a call center or
deal with all of the support needs that,
you know, but they are sort of forced
to.
You know, talk to me about like, you
know, if software in these markets they
only spend 1%. What's the expansion cuz
you're not going to settle for just the
1% given AI today?
>> Exactly right. I mean, for ServiceTitan
today we see spends of like 1%, 1.2, 2%
in that area, sometimes even 0.5%. It's
all around that number. And the
interesting part is that that's
generally what people have spent for
software. But, the idea with what AI is
trying to do and why we like to think of
ourselves as bringing in the AI
workforce is that you are now not only
thinking about expenditure as just
software expenditure to help your
business. You're now thinking about,
okay, well, much labor do I need? What
operations do I need to run my business
and how does that work from that?" And
so, if you actually look at customer
service or customer care, you look at
inside sales, and those units are
actually 3 to 5% of total expenditure
into a business, whereas software only
captures one. Now, if you look at the
marketing, marketing is such a huge
portion of what you need, how you get
all your leads, that's 7 to 10%. So, if
you actually look at some of the
different kinds of AI work forces that
you can hit into, you're not just trying
to see how much of that 1% you can get.
hitting into this 15-plus percentage
that you can see how much impact you can
make into that.
>> So, that's I mean, 15 times as big.
>> We initially started as a singular
wedge, which was the AI CSR, like
replacing their uh you know, a lot of
their call center needs. Uh but now, you
know, over the course of the last 6
months, we're seeing insane ACB
expansion, sometimes in order of 5 to
10x. And if you look at some of our top
uh customers and and you look at, you
know, the amount that they spend on
their CRM versus the amount they spend
on us, we're already seeing in cases
where we're able to get to two times
that of the CRM. So, we're already
proving by uh actually automating a lot
of their uh workflow, we're able to be
able to capture a much larger percentage
of of the value there.
>> At the risk of like going VC speak on
this, like you know, one of the funnier
things that um you know, we hang out
with our friends at um DST, for
instance, and one of the things they're
really excited about is actually exactly
this idea. From time immemorial, like
software has been sort of trying to get
into more and more of the pie of GDP.
When it does, it's getting that 1%,
which is not very much. This very small
percentage of like overall revenue that
goes to staff like this. You know,
what's great about tech and being
working in tech is the street, like they
will actually value what we do at, you
know, 10x, 20x next 12 months revenue.
Like that multiple is pretty wild. Like
you've seen non-tech people look at what
tech people get and they get very
jealous about it. Uh but that's actually
exactly what's happening today. It's
just matrix math, guys. Like it's
software that's built in a slightly, you
know, more accelerated way because it
also uses AI, but it's actually
jumping into, you know,
payroll expenses, marketing, all of
these other parts of, you know, share of
wallet. A San Francisco-based startup,
prior to maybe even 18 months ago, never
would have dreamed to be able to crack
that part of wallet share and then being
able to multiply your wallet share by
15x and have it be software that is
valued at like 20x next 12 months.
That's like going to be the avalanche of
value. Like if you're trying to make
something, this is actually the wildest
story in all of, like, the world right
now.
>> I completely agree. And actually, I
think it's even more crazy when you
think about how early we are in terms of
the how mature these AI tools are. Like
we're still in the very earliest phases
where, in fact, actually, if you look at
our product roadmap, the most important
things we haven't started working on
yet. We're still kind of getting into
that. And we've already been able to
create so much value. And so, I mean, to
your point about it's truly order of
magnitude's level of different if we can
execute really well.
>> I feel like we should address like some
of the stuff around, you know, someone
who just heard what we just talked about
will say like, "Oh, wait. Well, aren't
these people's jobs?"
And the weird thing there is, I mean,
the attrition rate on customer support
is insane.
>> In a normal um home service business,
there's almost a close to 100% attrition
rate over the course of 2 years. So,
that means that almost no one from that
initial cohort will still be there. And
it's because the job is just is not
really fun, right? You're dealing with
pissed off customers all the time. The
working conditions often times aren't
great. And you're just overloaded with
all these types of calls. What we really
view our solution on the AI CSR front is
actually helping those folks. By having
an AI that's able to take, you know, the
60-70% of what we call nuisance calls
that aren't even revenue sensitive, that
actually allows their CSRs to spend more
time doing the things that they're
enjoying and actually, you know, have
that unique human advantage for, which
is, you know, outbound sales, stuff like
that. And so, I definitely think that we
don't really view it as come in and and
and replace a lot of folks. It's really
to augment them to scale in a much more
efficient way.
>> Have you seen the movie uh Office Space?
>> Yeah. Yeah, right. I've seen it. I like
that woman who's like
>> [clears throat]
>> they they put uh one of the characters
next to someone a a woman who's in CSR
and who's like, "Corporate accounts
speaking, just a moment." And they just
like all day that's like what they're
doing.
>> Yeah.
>> That's what I think of when like maybe a
form of white-collar torture if you
really think about it. And then, you
know, the opposite of that is like I was
really taken by your story about, you
know, some of the CSRs who work in your
customers' operations like like sort of
converted from like being tortured in
that way.
>> Yeah, that a lot of them after using
Avolinco for 9 months, now Avolinco is
taking a lot of the calls that are not
as enjoyable and they don't even really
want to take. A lot of them have been
promoted to different positions in the
organization. Some have been promoted
to, you know, dispatch functions uh and
there's a new kind of role that's very
interestingly emerging, which is
actually the person that's in charge of
training and overseeing the AI agents.
And so, some of the top CSRs, the folk
the ones that really see this and and
try to think about what they can do to
really help the business, they've
embraced this new role of being the
person that can really pioneer kind of
the team lead for my fellow AI agents.
>> That kind of rhymes with um
you know, sort of the revolution the car
industry went through in the '80s where,
you know, Japanese cars went from like
kind of these rust buckets that people
didn't like to buy to suddenly they were
the most reliable and you know, everyone
preferred them and people were sort of
worried like will people buy anything
other than Japanese cars? And the way
they did that was actually empowering
the worker. So you know, a Toyota
production system famously had this
thing called Kaizen where like the
people who have to do the work get
empowered to redo the workflow of how it
works and then it transforms this sort
of like very rote, you know,
in a factory it's like how much more
rote could it be? It turns it into play
because like you are actively trying to
make a system that you have control over
better and better. And then if you think
about like what's happening in terms of
transformation of the roles that when
Avoka comes into a CSR situation, a lot
of people are quitting. 0% annual
retention means like literally if you
had 10 people, all 10 people would quit
that job on a 12-month basis, right? You
know, if you took a couple of those
people, you know, they were going to
quit anyway, but instead they're
wrangling AI agents and they're learning
more about the customer.
>> One of our customers called us as a
great example of that. Their retention
rate skyrocketed. Pretty big HVAC
business in the Carolinas and once they
started using our Avoka agents to
augment and and kind of be that first
line defense, they saw attrition rates
go through the roof because people are
now answering less calls and enjoying
that more.
>> I mean, I think this is an important
story that you know, people should sort
of pay attention to.
>> I'd say the biggest thing to even think
about too is like if there was some kind
of dynamic where people were losing jobs
and they hated this Avoka or hated AI
agents, you'd see the following in terms
of customer value. You would see that
the owners of these businesses love you
because maybe you're increasing revenue
and your customer service teams hate you
cuz they're kind of like all these these
guys are taking my job. In reality,
actually it's kind of funny like I mean,
the owners obviously love us for
bringing them revenue, but it's also the
customer service teams. They are super
happy using Voca. They say that Voca has
actually been great for their businesses
and they're able to now no longer be,
you know, yelled at or be judged by
making sure they answer every little
call, but now they can go focus on doing
more important things in the company and
we actually see that dynamic play out.
So, definitely at this stage it's it's
super win-win and we foresee it being
even more like that over time.
>> Well, thanks for sharing the good news.
I think there are a lot of AI startups
out there who will be watching this who
are like, "Oh, actually this is sort of
the example for what we should, you
know, try to make happen." And it's
certainly possible. So, thank you for
making that happen. I'm switching gears
a little bit. I'd love to hear about how
the two of you came together as
co-founders. It sounds like both of you
were MIT and you met at a poker
competition.
>> So, this was many years back and it was
kind of a casual um poker competition
with uh just a group of folks. I
remember uh meeting Apoorv. I was
getting ready to leave. So, I I uh
decided to to go all in with nothing.
And then Apoorv uh looked me dead in the
eye. I didn't really even know him at
this point. He looked me dead in the eye
and he said, "If I fold, will you show
me what you have?"
And I was like, "Yeah, sure." And then
he's like, "Okay, well then I call." And
and he just won all my money. And oh
man, and I I remember leaving that day
um really frustrated. But then uh we
ended up becoming, you know, super super
close friends um lived together uh in uh
in San Francisco and and and throughout
New York for over 5 years. Just really
got along, uh had a lot of similar
passions around uh AI in particular. And
we worked on a lot of different AI
projects together uh even living
together. We had built this one
application. We were playing basketball
one day, we're like, "Hey, who like what
is actually our vertical jump?" And so,
literally the next day we decided to
build a quick AI application where you
take your phone and then you can video
yourself jumping and it instantly tell
you the vertical.
>> Nice.
>> And so, we did a lot of these things
together and and then ultimately um
decided to build something.
>> I mean, both of you guys kind of cut
your teeth on building pretty impactful
things for, you know, Neuro, for Retool.
Do you want to talk about those things
at all?
>> Honestly, that there was a lot of really
great work that was happening there. I
mean, I can I can touch on Retool, for
example. I mean, I think Retool, when I
joined the company, they were very much
like under 50 people, like blitzscaling.
And I think all the way from, you know,
figuring out what does our motions look
like on product and thing about forward
deployed engineering and all this stuff.
It's like I was one of the first people
to kind of be hired into forward
deployed engineering, growing out that
team, figuring out how do we see success
for customers, how do we scale those
operations, like all sorts of different
kind of work like that. So, I think it
was pretty great. Honestly, I'd say one
of the biggest and most prideful things
I think we've kind of kept these values
into Boca as well is that we hired an
insanely strong and talented forward
deployed engineering. I think some of
the people there have gone on to be
other founders today, you know, series
A, series B founders, doing really well.
It just shows that when you hire a great
team and you can execute really well and
these people do great things in general.
And we we see that as well in a Boca
where we think the people that are
working here at a Boca have created
something incredible and they will
themselves be future incredible founders
one day.
>> Yeah, the FDE model is pretty awesome.
My high school and college buddy, I
think was basically the first FDE in
practice. Stephen Cohen, one of the
co-founders of Palantir. I was before
the title was created, but that's
basically what Stephen did and then
uh our buddy Sham, who now runs all
kinds of things at Palantir still, he
sort of formalized it into like a
training program.
>> It makes sense because I think for every
business, the most important thing is
customer value and customer obsession.
So, if you can get someone who can
understand the product and be technical
and the engineering side and also
interface with the customer, they are
potentially some of the most important
people in any business because they're
figuring out how does this product
actually drive your success? Truly, it's
an incredible model and I think it's
worked really well. You obviously need
to get the right people on it. It's It's
just amazing.
>> For Nuro, I think one of the most I
mean, I worked on a lot of projects
there for around 3 years. Some of the
most interesting things at Nuro that
probably impacted kind of my thinking
and our thinking of of Evoca was some of
the work I did with
the human in the loop stuff. And so, the
team I was on it was called kind of
supply. We built a lot of the internal
tools powering kind of the operations of
of Nuro. One of the things was this
program called Guardian. When the
autonomous vehicle was in trouble,
allowing a remote operator to kind of
remote in and save the day. That was
something that we actually took kind of
a similar lesson from and incorporated
it into the Evoca product as well.
>> What were the tactical things there?
It's like trying to figure out, you
know, when should a human get involved?
>> Most important things was understanding
like when and also
the providing the context. Understanding
when the autonomous vehicle is in
trouble and ideally anticipating it a
few seconds beforehand. And then being
able to then give the human operator
that's going to step in a bit of a
preview into like the context of what's
happening. You're not just immediately
thrown into a situation where you have
to kind of save the vehicle.
>> That's funny. I mean, I guess in AI,
people are always doing context
engineering for LLMs, but you're doing
context engineering for humans in the
loop then.
>> Yeah, exactly. There's so many parallels
between the world of autonomous vehicles
and AI agents we're building at Evoca.
>> I think you got into YC twice.
The first time you couldn't come over
yet and then second time you guys did.
Talk to me about your time in YC.
>> So, someone starting a company, I would
say the most important thing was me and
Tyson we were roommates for so long. We
wanted to work together and we were we
had very similar ambitions and all that.
I think in the early days, we were kind
of exploring a few different ideas,
hacking on things. We We always used to
hack on a variety of different projects.
I mean, all sorts of different things,
but finally, I think the the place where
we got really excited, where we thought
actually YC would be great, was going to
be um when we were thinking about the
fact that this is actually pre-Chat GPT,
but after the model GPT-3 DaVinci was
out and I think people started talking
about it, but the hype wasn't fully
there. We started kind of realizing,
wait, these AI models kind of sound like
a human. It's not perfect and who says
like crazy, but it does sound like a
human. And for me and Tyson, I mean,
from both of our backgrounds, we kind
of, you know, growing up in Michigan,
Pennsylvania, it's like we literally did
the job of what these agents would often
have to do or that what these agents
could do, where we just had to just, you
know, talk to these customers, close
customers, etc. We really had this like
kind of hunch where we were like, okay,
these things aren't yet able to speak,
but once they can speak, the entire,
what we call like the physical economy,
the entire all these service-based
businesses will have an insane unlock
because of the fact that now you have
someone that can answer your phones,
that can go reach out to customers, do
all of this thing. And so, I think we
had a pretty early hunch. That's when I
think me and Tyson were kind of like,
let's do this. And solely when it comes
to YC, I mean, I think without YC, we
would not have been successful. I think
it's just very clear. In fact, when we
first got into YC, me and Tyson were
kind of like, you know, what, do we need
YC? We don't really know what we're
working on yet. Like, like should we
even do it? And I think we actually
decided not to do it cuz we were like,
you know what, still working at a
company that's not going to wrap up by
then. Um let's just, you know, figure it
out on ourselves. There's VCs who are
reaching out, you know, wanting to
invest. We don't necessarily need YC.
But that's actually when we were
actually doing the actual exploration is
when we realized that there's so many
things about starting a company that
genuinely we would not have learned. I'd
say the two biggest things I can think
of are customer obsession, which is just
being maniacally focused on your
customer, and focus on momentum, which
is just constantly be pushing yourself.
And I think YC gets students
environment. And so for us, frankly,
there was many places where me and
Heisman were thinking like, okay, you
know, we have all these job offers. Do
we you know, we've tried for a bit and
do we go back and then maybe try again
in a few years or do we keep executing?
And the fact that we kept executing and
did YC is probably the only reason that
Avoka is able to be how big it is today.
>> I feel like that you're tangibly the two
things would be like obviously you're
working with a partner is cool. I mean,
I'm working with 25 companies right now
and I'm just always reminded of like
when you're in the maze trying to like
find your way to product market fit in
the idea maze, you're like, do we turn
around? Do we like explore this other
part of the maze? And then you know,
being having someone next to you who's
like, "Oh, no, no, keep going."
Like you don't know that yet. Or you
know, or it's like, "Oh, yeah, it's time
to not do this anymore." Like that you
know, was that a part of like what you
experienced?
>> Definitely. I think there were so many
instances where Evan and I were you
know, were roommates and we would get so
excited. There would be so many of these
kind of like, "Man, like this is it.
We're like we're on to something huge.
Like we we you know, this is going to be
huge." Literally like two days later as
we like discover more about that niche
or like talk to more customers, then we
fade. It'd be really disheartening cuz
it feels like you're pounding your head
against this wall and you're working
like you know, we're basically working
24/7 every single weekend.
>> I think it was really
nice to be in that environment where
there's other people doing the same
thing. Every time we had the opportunity
to speak with our with our partner at
the time, Dalton, it was really
elucidating. I think having him kind of
ground us and it's just like every time
we left speaking with Dalton it was
like, "Okay, this is what we have to do.
These are the actual core tenants to
focus on." As Evan said, I think like
speed is is everything. Like I think
there's many areas where we could have
probably built a decent business if we
had stuck to some of these other
verticals like restaurants where we had
found some initial traction, dental, but
it was really the relentless idea of
like okay this is good but how big can
it be like when we switched into home
services we had a hundred restaurants
that were using us they were liking us
decently we even had some national
restaurant chains but after we saw the
opportunity of home services we just
realized that even though we had a
hundred these restaurant customers that
wasn't enough like that's that's not
going to become a generational company
and so having the speed to kind of go
quickly and then also be able to say no
to you know good markets and good ideas
to pursue even you know bigger ones I
think that I really was well out of us
to succeed maybe one quick thing to add
to that is I think that the thing that I
really like to think about when it when
it comes to this is not customer value
again I will say in the early days you
know I mean we worked at retail near a
lot of our friends were VCs knocking our
doors so whenever we would kind of talk
to a VC and casually and we kind of be
like oh yeah here's what we're exploring
the thing that every VC person would
tell us that YC wouldn't that I think YC
was correct on is that every venture
capitalist is always thinking about
market whereas every YC partner that we
would ask advice for is always thinking
of can you sell it will they pay for it
how much they actually like it cuz I
think selling and paying is a proxy for
value and so for us actually what was
interesting was that you know even in
home services is like in the early days
it's not like VCs were always like super
excited early days they they hated it
but but the thing that I think me and
Tyson saw and that's actually candidly
because of a lot of learnings we got
from you know places like YC is that
actually the amount that these home
service customers love our product is
producing 80% of revenue for their
businesses are coming through phone
calls so the amount that our product is
helpful is just so high that actually
let's not look at classic things about
oh what is this market should we go work
on it that's kind of like that's the VCs
job to go do that our job is to go
follow where there's customer love where
people are going to pay us more and
that's going to be the more exciting
opportunity for us and yeah frankly I
think we would have me and Tizen could
very well have been stuck in this maze
of like trying to play the game on VC of
what idea to work on as opposed to just
following the customers if it wasn't for
a place like YC.
>> And I think one other YC principle that
really stuck out in the early days was
understanding the way that you can add
value is really directly correlated to
the customer pain. And I think in the
early days like I remember one of our
earliest home service customers, Rescue
Air, they had this pain that was so
great.
That's all they could tell us about,
which is how much they hated their
answering service. And yet they still
paid $3,000 a month for this answering
service. It didn't integrate into their
CRM. It was It had long hold times. It
was inconsistent. And yet they still
paid it. And the YC principle that it
always takes me back to is like
if the pain is big enough, the customer
will try to find a solution to it even
if it's not perfect. And so that's when
it was like that kind of was a bit of a
lightbulb moment. It was like, wait a
minute, these guys are spending this
much money and it's like the the the
solution is this bad? Like there's
definitely something here to to kind of
tease that like tug on that thread.
>> Basically, all of these things like you
can read about it, you can watch videos
like this, and you know, but when you're
actually in the idea maze and you're
like breaking your brain about stuff,
having office hours with someone who's
seen so many things basically is like a
it's almost like if a GPT-5 had it
actually does have this like model
router that tries to help you figure out
like, okay, do I have the answer or do I
need to, you know, use medium or high
reasoning or do I need to use pro? If
you're doing it on your own, it's like
trying to use like GPT-5 pro for like
every decision.
>> Exactly.
>> You know, like spin, overthink, and then
it's like when you use GPT-5 pro for
exactly what happened to you. Like we
have a customer who's experiencing this
extreme pain.
Like in office hours, when we hear that,
you know, I'd be like, that's sick.
Like, do that. Like, you have you now
you got something. All you have to do is
like start pulling on this thread and
you're going to have this billion-dollar
company, which has turned out to be true
at this point.
>> not quite a billion yet, but we're
getting there.
>> I mean, we can see the trajectory. It
seems like
seems written in the stars to me. So,
you figured out this product, you've got
product market fit, um it's working.
Walk us through you did demo day, you
did YC. How much did you raise? Like,
you pivoted in the batch and found this
amazing thing. Walk us through like
you're in the idea maze and then to
here, you know, especially around the
product.
>> On the product side, basically
the day one value was focusing on one
problem that's like a hair on fire
problem these customers have that we can
provide the most amount of customer
value. And that was building the AI CSR.
And so, this is essentially someone like
an AI agent that goes and answers phone
calls, books customer, closes revenue,
etc. And when we realized that that was
actually very valuable, we kind of were
was like our immediate thing was let's
get this in the hands of as many
customers as we can and let's perfect
that. And I think when we started seeing
that that was going well, that's when me
and Tyson kind of realized we were like,
okay, wait, this could be on to
something quite interesting. That's when
we actually focused a bit more on
hiring, got a great team, and things
like that, too. But then the next phase
of the company started occurring, which
is what's happening right now. And I
think we're kind of in this phase where
we're essentially the product is
significantly deeper than voice. And so,
that voice that AI CSR was the initial
wedge. What we're doing now is like what
we like to call the AI workforce because
it's not just that CSR agent. We're
doing all sorts of kind of doing
proactive reach outs. We can reach out
via text, we can do target marketing to
different people. We can have like a
coach product that goes in coaches to
see how are you doing on a call
performance, how is your text doing, and
things like that. And so, now it's like
just building each of these agent flows.
I would say the biggest reason we're
able to do that and that's what's
causing a lot of these, you know, ACV
expansions and things like that is
actually because we also have a just
incredible team. And so, I will say it's
like we're kind of in this like complete
green area where you have this industry
where there's not that many technical
people. You have to create an incredible
product because now you have this entire
AI wave that's about to completely
change their industry. And so, that's
where we were able to kind of have some
of the best people working here. And so,
I think for example, I'll just highlight
a few people cuz they were also YC
people, but there's like Barat who I
think he was YC in 2015. Without him,
the company would not be where it's at
today. He's like one of our product
leaders. He kind of goes in and figured
out essentially how to kind of help
scale some of these go from the CSR to
building the rest of the workflows well,
let some of that work. There's Dragos
who for that CSR coach, that like the
coaching product, he's kind of taken a
big lead on that. And he was YC 2020.
Incredible person there. There's also
Ditya who is actually the same batch as
us. He was building like an API infra
company. And he's just been one of the
most incredible engineers, too. And so,
in fact, actually, we just have this
incredible team out and we are building
out essentially the rest of the
workforce layer. And so, what I think is
the most exciting part about Voca is not
even like how the product looks today or
how much we've grown, but it's how
strong the team we have and how much
there is still to grow. I mean, my
candid plug would also be if you have
there's any folks, we love ex-founder
people, want to be founders. We probably
have one of the most founder-like early
stage cultures, especially in New York.
And so, if anyone's excited, I think
Voca's definitely looking.
>> I can definitely say like working at
Palantir very early uh jump-started my
whole life in a lot of ways. You know,
being able to work at the next uh you
know, future 300 billion-dollar company
in Avoca, that I mean, that's going to
be a pretty killer experience.
>> And we give a lot of autonomy, too. Like
there's, you know, there's so much to
do. We're the leaders in home services,
um but there's, you know, several other
verticals that we're looking to expand
to. So, just the scope of really being
able to to work uh here, I think, is is
unparalleled.
>> Actually super interesting how you take
this sort of CSR function that's kind of
a cost center, like cost of doing
business,
very, very high turnover, terrible job,
like nobody even really, you know, you
know, you have to do it, but you don't
want to. And then you've sort of
switched it, and now it's actually like
sounds like it's putting more money into
customers' hands.
>> Core revenue driver, so
>> So it's not just like cost center, have
to do it. Now it's uh
>> That's actually when we do sales, I
mean, our for sure, yeah, you'll get
some cost uh reduction. We've even seen
cases where a company that had 100 CSRs
is now at 30. Um and that and you know,
a lot of that's natural attrition given
seasonality, and a lot of it is like
folks get promoted. The value probably
always lead with is this is going to be
a core revenue driver. This will be
putting multiple millions more um by,
you know, people spend so much on
marketing by being able to capture every
lead.
>> You were saying you found a customer and
they're starting to pull the product out
of you. I feel like there's a teaching
moment there where it's like some people
might overthink it or maybe they not
spend the right amount of time. Like it
sounds like what you did was fly there
and sit with the customer and like
literally work out of their like office.
You know, what was that like?
>> Customer obsession is is I think a core
part of what makes Avoka special and a
core part of the DNA that we've been
able to to carry, you know, since since
we started. A lot of the best ideas that
we have come from understanding
customers at a very deep level. And I
think we can only get to that point by
having that level of obsession where
literally now even like basically all of
our major deployments will have several
team members fly to that customer for a
week. What I like to call it is like all
these customers, they're especially the
large ones, they're successful
for some reason. And usually it's like
they've might have found one or two
secrets that no one else in the industry
has figured out.
>> Walk me through like the story of it.
Can you place me in like a time and a
place? What did it look like in that CSR
room? And yeah, who did you talk to and
like, you know, when you came away from
that is like how did that influence your
first products?
>> The one that kind of comes to mind is
probably our our first customer
Rescueware. When we first walked in,
there were two owners, Josh and Michael.
They had known about us because one of
our restaurant customers just like said,
"Hey, you guys should talk to these
guys. They're buddies of mine." I showed
them the ISIS that we bought for me.
And basically all these guys could talk
about was how bad their answering
service was. So they introduced us to
the operations manager, the guy by the
name of Andreas. And Andreas is this
like tall 6'2" Greek guy. He is like,
"Hey, this is my CSR room." And he
showed me, folks, is like six people.
And it just turns out that the room was
buzzing, but the issue was there was too
many calls cuz it was a a heatwave in
Dallas in the summer.
And so the the call room was buzzing and
you know, people were trying their best
to handle the calls, but it turns out a
lot of the calls just weren't able to be
taken. Well, what happens to all these
calls? Like, you know, where do they go?
And they're like, "Well, we have this
local answering service that we're using
to handle all of our overflow and after
hours, like weekends, nights, where they
don't have any of their CSRs to take
care of them." And so then we kind of
said, "Well, like, you know, does does
it work well?" And that's when we didn't
even have to say anything. They
basically continuously were like, "You
know, this is actually the number one
thing that irritates us. We've literally
switched to the fifth answering service
in the same year.
Five, five different ones." And it's
like he's like, "It's always the same
thing. They start out strong, but then
quality diminishes." And so
understanding that, then we got deep
into the workflows. I was like, "Well,
wait a minute. What does this answering
service actually do for you? Does it
actually book jobs? And they're like,
"Well, no. All it does is it waits 2
minutes on average to answer. It doesn't
actually book the job. It just takes a
message." And so we're like, "Wait, so
basically you're paying $3,000 a month
for a glorified voicemail, which also,
you know, sometimes even irks the
customers because like the CSRs they
have are, you know, not the
friendliest."
>> They're sitting in a 95° room and
they're hot.
>> And yeah.
>> And those answering services are
answering phones for, you know,
Rescuewear, the vet, the librarian. Like
it's not personalized at all. And so,
yeah, that that maybe that's a bit of a
kind of the inner look into what that
initial interaction was like.
>> what was it like, you know, you went
back, made a version that uh you know,
and you went back and showed it to them.
What happened?
>> There was
these moments where I felt incredible.
And I think that's It was not perfect,
you know, in the early days AI is
hallucinating. There's all these sorts
of issues. But how does it handle this
edge case? How does it deal with this
workflow, this workflow? But in the case
of where I did well, it was incredible.
And then it was up to us to go figure
out how to like really fine-tune that
product. And then if you look at a lot
of the other agent workflows we've built
or things like that from there, it
really just came down to being like,
"This is customer X. Nothing in Avoica
is built until customer X or customer Y
is using that and they're happy with
that." Until that point it's like,
"There's no feat You're not feature
complete until a customer's happy." is
one of our tenants. And I think the
reason we have that is cuz we hear our
problems from them.
>> It's our job to add as much value as we
can to customers and we hope that
that'll show increases in our contract
sizes and how much revenue we'll also
get to.
>> These maxims are like easy to say, very
hard to do, and you're doing it. Um
and you know, from here it's sort of
resulted in this absolute like growth
explosion. Like last year when you hit
uh you know, your first seven figures
ARR overall, and then uh now you've
basically doubled to eight figure ARR.
Like doubling to get there in the last
90 days is very explosive growth. So,
how'd you do it?
>> It was a combination of things, um, but
I think one of the big reasons was It
kind of goes back to the old like YC
axiom around like don't try to get 100
customers that like your product, try to
get three that love it. And so, we went,
uh, to the lab and and just like had
three essentially early design partners
that we absolutely poured our heart and
soul into making something that they
loved. And the interesting thing about
home services that it's extremely
interconnected. A lot of the early, uh,
traction was referrals. You never think
about it, but in home services there's
this influencer network where folks like
a Josh Campbell from Rescue Air, they
are like kind of super connectors.
Everyone looks to them to say, "What's
next? Like what is the next big
technology?" And so, you know, I think
Josh personally connected us to, uh,
something like 10 of our first like 30
customers. And then we started getting,
uh, a lot of, uh, chatter about us on
these Facebook groups where all these
contractors are from. And then we
layered in, um, kind of the conferences,
the trade shows with virtually zero
sales and marketing. We were able to get
to that first like, you know, million,
two million. From there on it was just
continuing to to kind of scale. The last
half of it has really been driven by the
enterprise and and private equity
adoption. Because these, you know, PEs
consolidating this, uh, industry, uh, a
ton. We figured out like how to how to
get that motion down, how to do
enterprise sales. And then once we had
that kind of continuous inbound from
from the mid-market. And then we were
able to understand and really figure out
how to attack the enterprise. That's
when things just like continued to boom.
And again, like, you know, we we've been
growing fast, but we really think this
is just the beginning. Like, this market
is absolutely massive. The exciting
innings are are yet to come.
>> Basically, do unscalable things to get
to the first million dollars a year in
revenue, and then
the trick is scale it after that.
>> Yes, exactly. I think, yeah, a lot of
unscalable things we did with the
Facebook groups and stuff. I think we
would personally ask our customers that
were like really happy anytime there was
AI-focused thread to kind of talk about
us. And, you know, that led to a lot of
things. Yeah, I think scaling, yeah, we
ended up starting to scale sales quite
heavily, but the key is, I think the
thing that we did right is is scaling
before you truly find PMF. I think
that's one of the biggest mistakes that
can kill your business. We literally got
to around a million, maybe over a
million before
we brought on kind of our our first
actual sales team. And then, it was
like, "Hey, we figured out how to do
it." And then, we scaled it after that.
>> Yeah, that's the right way to do it.
Like, often people try to scale their
sales team having not even done the
sales themselves. Yeah, like, without
founder-led sales, you can't do it.
Totally. If you're right about going
from 1% wallet spend to 15% wallet spend
in this, you know, very, very large home
services market, uh you know, what does
a Voca look like, you know, next year
and 5 years from now?
>> It's almost like there's this concept of
system of record that, you know,
everyone talks about when it comes to
CRMs and things like that. There's
almost like going to be this what Voca
represents to these industries is almost
a system of intelligence or system of
action where your core workflows, how
you close your customers, how do you do
your marketing, how you do all of your
core operations work is going to be
centered around a Voca, and it'll be the
biggest platform that we think these
people will use, be significantly more
valuable to these customers than I think
even a ServiceTitan could be. But, I
think, yep, ServiceTitan has its place,
too, and it's a great company, but I
think a Voca will have a great place, as
well. And I think it's going to be very
big and I think the most exciting thing
also by the way is that home services,
how that's going to be done will also be
very similar to maybe adjacent
industries or other industries, too. And
so, when we think of like Evoca, we're
already hitting a market size that's
just so massive. And the fact that it's
just the beginning with that market is
just so exciting for us to hear where we
think that if we execute flawlessly and
do really well, the opportunity for this
business is being a unicorn is not at
all the goal. The goal is to see how
great we can be.
>> It's like can never say anything about
valuations and pricing, but
quite big.
>> Well, that's all we have time for today,
but we'll see you guys next time.