Title: Lightning Talk with Wharton's Leon Musolff
Video ID: F-Y4hDX4nmY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-Y4hDX4nmY
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:02:05Z
Duration: PT15M12S
Views: 268
Likes: 6
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 444

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

All right, a little bit of a challenge.
Excellent. Well, thank you so much for
having me. I'm excited to tell you about
sources of market power in web search
evidence from a field experiment. And
this project is joint work with Hunt,
Juan, Camilo, Castillo, Matt Ganskow,
and Tobia Saltz. Now, I don't think I
need to remind anyone in the room about
the most salient fact about the web
search market, which is that Google
absolutely dominates web search, right?
such a high and stable market share
naturally has attracted the attention of
regulators across the globe. In the US
specifically, the DOJ just recently won
a court case against Google uh with the
judge concluding that Google has
illegally maintained its monopoly. And
one of the facts that was mentioned
during that trial is that Google pays
around $26 billion a year um in payments
to remain or become the default search
engine on various devices. Now against
this backdrop in this paper we want to
ask and answer two key research
questions. The first one is why is
Google's market share so high? There are
a couple of possible explanations. It
could be that Google is simply the
better search engine. But even then you
might wonder is this just because they
have access to more data. It could also
be that consumers misperceive the
quality of Google's competition perhaps
because they've never even sent a single
search query on duck.go Bing or Eosia.
Finally, uh, with figures such as $26
billion floating around, it's natural to
think that default effects may play a
role in influencing market
outcomes. The second key question we
want to ask and answer in this research
project is that of the effects of
various potential levels of competition
policy or various remedies, right? You
might imagine introducing active choice
screens just like uh they did in the
European Union for Android devices. You
could imagine banning Google from paying
for the default position, effectively
switching that default to be Bing or
some other search engine. And finally,
you could imagine requiring Google to
share data with its competitors. Now, in
this project, we develop a model of
consumer search engine choice that
inspires us to design a field experiment
that's carefully crafted to empirically
uh assess the various sources of market
power. We combine that with
observational click and query data from
Microsoft Bing and uh all of these tools
together allow us to run these
counterfactuals and predict what would
market shares be under these various
policies. Now today's talk is very short
so I'm going to sort of mostly focus on
the field experiment and the
counterfactuals here. Having said that I
need to give you a very quick summary of
how we think about the situation.
Essentially, we think look, there are
going to be consumers that are choosing
between Bing and Google. But the first
important thing is not all consumers
wake up every single morning and think,
do I want to use Bing today for my
searches or Google today for my
searches? Right? Some consumers are
attentive in any given moment and others
are not attentive. And it's going to be
important for us to identify how many
consumers are actually attentive in that
they're choosing the option that
maximizes their welfare. Secondly, if
you want to switch your search engine,
you need to navigate the various menus.
You're going to incur some sort of
switching cost. Thirdly, you might be
misinformed about the quality of search
engines that you have never used before.
Right? Search engines are experience
goods. So, if you've never used Bing
before, you might be underestimating its
quality. Now, importantly, might be,
right? We'll want to estimate whether
you actually are. And then, finally,
just to flag, uh I know in the real
world, search engines sadly don't pay
you to search. In our experiment, of
course, we are going to pay people to
search just so that we can identify
price sensitivity and so I can tell you
something about consumer welfare. All
right. What is this experiment I keep
talking about? Well, uh about a year
ago, we recruited 2,400 people online
and these were us adults using a desktop
computer and we asked them the standard
sort of battery of survey questions and
so on. But then also crucially, we had
them install our browser extension. Now,
our browser extension does not have as
uh you know, wonderful a name as all of
these tech demos we heard before. I'm
never going to be part of why I
combinated with it. It's simply called
search
extension. Search extension is a
beautiful tool though because it is
essentially a little snitch. It will
tell me what search engine you used on
any given day. Looking even back in the
past by utilizing your browser history.
So, for all of these people that we
recruited, we could track what search
engines they used. That was important
because now we were going to randomize
them into various treatments and we
wanted to see how did their search
engine usage respond to our treatments.
Now what were these treatments? Well,
there's got to be a control group.
That's boring. We didn't do anything
with them. More interestingly, there's
an active choice group that's sort of
meant to mimic the choice screen, right?
We're going to ask you what's your
preferred default search engine? And
then we're going to walk you through
implementing it. And you can't avoid
that. We're going to verify that you
actually made it to that choice screen.
The next group is a switch bonus group.
Here, these are people that were
actually going to pay some money, $1,
$10, or $25 to switch their searches for
14 days. So, if they previously used
Google, they're now going to have to use
Bing for the next 14 days and vice
versa. After 14 days, this group is
going to make another active choice like
in a choice screen scenario so that we
can get some sense of how their
preferences have changed. And then
finally there's this default change
group where we pay them a bunch of money
to just very briefly change the default
search engine. But the trick is we never
remind them of this again. So we can see
sort of you know how sticky is that
default. So this is the experiment
timeline. These are all our various
treatments. And the important thing to
note is just we have data from day minus
20 to day 56. So this is actually quite
a long study. We see real behavior for a
long period of time. How are we going to
uh use this study to learn about these
various sources of market power? Well,
I'm going to explain it using this graph
where I'm showing you Bing's market
share amongst baseline Google users. So,
these are people that came into the
experiment using Google and I'm showing
you the Bing market share over time. In
the control group, you would hope it
doesn't move. By the way, this is
stylized data. I'm not yet showing you
data. This is just to get a sense. We're
going to get to data in a second. Now,
in the active choice group, we would
expect that on day zero, when they're
making this active choice, when they get
this choice screen, essentially, they're
going to make a choice that's going to
reveal their true preferences, right?
So, if they think Bing and Google are
actually about equally good, then we're
going to have pretty high Bing market
share here. Otherwise, we might have
pretty low Bing market share. That's
also going to tell us about the extent
of switching costs and permanent in
attention. These sort of frictions that
might hold you back from choosing your
true default. Um, if you aren't reminded
about it, then we're going to have that
switch bonus group. In the first 14
days, we're paying them money. So, we're
going to be able to find out, you know,
to what extent do they value being with
their current search engine over that
alternative, their price sensitivity, in
other words. But then most interestingly
on day 15, the switch bonus group is
just like the active choice group only
that they had an additional 14 days of
experience of Bing. So any market share
difference between that orange line and
that light blue line must be because
they learned something about Bing. It
must be because they learned about
Bing's quality. And then finally we have
that default change group where we can
just see where does it sort of asmtote
to that final market share difference
between the dark blue line and the
orange line will tell us how much people
are influenced by defaults. So let's
actually look at this in data. Right?
This is the same graph. Now I'm just
showing you data. Okay. Control group
nothing much happened. No revelation
there. The active choice group also
nothing much happened. That's already
very interesting, right? It tells us
that if you just gave people a choice
screen, basically they would just choose
Google, right? So, as a remedy, I think
that's almost immediately out of the
picture if you're thinking, well, I
really want to change Google's market
shares. Now, another thing that this
tells us is it can't be that these
default positions are massively helping
Google out in the following sense. Uh if
the default, you know, if everyone made
an active choice, they would be choosing
something else. We're seeing they
wouldn't be choosing something else. So,
it's not just the default that matters.
What else could matter here? Well, let
me show you here this orange line, the
switch bonus group. Remember, these are
people that are being paid between day
zero and 14 to use Bing. And good news
for me as an economics professor, you
know, when you pay people to do
something, they do more of it. That's
good. I teach that every day, you know,
to my MBAs. So that works out. But now
the interesting question is on day 15,
as they make another choice, now an
unincentivized choice, what actually
happens? And what we see is yes, Bing's
market share goes down again. Of course,
we're not paying them anymore, but it
actually doesn't crater down all the way
to the light blue line. Rather, it stays
elevated. It settles down at about 22%.
So in other words, this additional 14
days of experience with Bing really
convinced some of these people to stick
with Bing. And that can only work if you
have misperceptions of quality. You got
to either learn about the quality of
Bing or learn how to use Bing. And I
tell you a bit more about that learning
in a second. Just before then, I wanted
to show you also that defaults do matter
in the following sense. If I defaulted
everyone into Bing, a bunch of people
would stick stick with Bing, right? this
dark blue line it basically stable at
the end of the day. These are people
that we defaulted into Bing and
initially they switch you know there are
some clever people that switch out very
quickly and the others they just never
change. All right so let me tell you a
little bit more about this learning in
the switch bonus group. We actually
asked people who we uh um the people who
switched we asked them before the switch
and after the switch you know how do you
feel about Google versus Bing? Everyone
agrees Google is better before the
switch. After the switch, everyone still
agrees Google is better, but their
opinions have somewhat mellowed. And
importantly, uh, we also asked them just
for free form text responses. This is
from people in that orange line at the
end who stayed with Bing. And my
favorite free form text response right
at the bottom here, I realized Bing was
not as bad as I thought it was. If I
needed to summarize the paper in one
line, it would be that line. I realized
Bing was not as bad as I thought it was.
All right, but moving swiftly on, we
have some numbers on this, not so
important. Moving swiftly on, I think
this is interesting. This is how much
you uh pay people versus their Bing
market share. And these are payments for
every two weeks, right? So even if you
pay just $1 every two weeks, then you
get a Bing market share of 32%. If you
pay $25, you get a Bing market share of
three quarters in our sample. So in
other words, you know, there is a bunch
of people who don't have very strong
preferences. They prefer Google, but not
by a lot. And then there are some people
who have extremely strong preferences.
$25 for two weeks, that's a lot of money
relative to what search engines make in
advertising. So these are people with
extremely strong preferences. It's going
to be important that they're not
defaulted into the wrong search engine.
All right, putting all of this together,
let me do counterfactuals. Uh quick
recap how we think of counterfactuals in
my field of economics. You know, we have
all of this knowledge about how markets
operate. We use that to discipline some
estimates. Those estimates come from the
data that I just showed you. And so
there is a model going on in the
background and there are some modeling
assumptions and for sure we could
quibble about those. Right? In the
interest of time, I'm not going to go
into detail here. Please come find me if
you want to quibble about them. I'd be
very interested. Um, but let me just
tell you about these counterfactuals.
Okay, we got to start with a status quo.
In the status quo, based on our market
definition, Google's market share is
around 89%. We are indexing mostly on
desktop here. Now, what's going to
happen if we take away these frictions?
the switching cost and attention
misperceptions. Well, the efficient
Google market share that is the market
share that would obtain in the absence
of these frictions is 74%. Two things
are important about this. One, this is a
very large number, right? Google is a
great product at least as judged by
revealed preference. So, if we go with
traditional economics approaches of
judging by revealed preference, loads of
people should be using Google. However,
second point, that market share is a lot
less than 89%. In particular, if you
invert it, right, in the efficient state
of the world, Bing's market share has
doubled. So, that difference is the
difference that you could potentially
get with remedies. What sort of remedies
are on offer? Well, you could do a
choice screen. The problem with a choice
screen is it fixes the inattention, but
it doesn't fix the misperception. People
won't have experienced Bing when they
make their choice on the choice screen.
And so that means you can barely move
Google's market share, only like one
percentage point. We're very happy with
this result, by the way, because that is
what happened in the European Union. So
we know that the model isn't making
crazy predictions here. Now, what else
could you do if you only could get
people to somehow have correct
perceptions of these alternative search
engines? That would be great, right?
You're really moving the market share
here. But that's going to be a hard
policy to pass as a remedy. What could
you do? Well, you could ban Google's
payment to be the default. If you do
that, you're really going to crater a
Google's market share. So, maybe that's
good news. But then, this is really bad
news. This is the only large welfare
number we have. If you're defaulting
people into non- Googlele search
engines, a lot of them are going to
stick with it, including people who
really hate those other search engines.
So, you're going to really destroy a lot
of consumer surplus. So, we are saying
this policy, our model says, is really
bad. How can you rescue it? You can
rescue it by adding a delayed choice
screen. If you add a choice screen sort
of two weeks in, three weeks in after
they have been defaulted into Bing, they
now have that choice screen to, you
know, rescue the people who just
followed blindly followed the default
and never thought about what search
engine they wanted and the moment they
think about it, they're like, actually,
I want Google. So that delayed choice
screen could really both lower market
shares and leave consumer surplus
unharmed. All right. And with that, I
should conclude. This is some extra
counterfactuals that just show you
returns to scale. The data economies we
find don't really matter. Happy to talk
more about that offline. But let me
conclude here. The key takeaways.
Defaults are extremely effective in that
about a third of users are permanently
inattentive. And they also prevent users
from learning about other search
engines. How can regulators reduce
Google's market share? Well, what we
find is that choice screens really are
not going to work. Changing the default
does, but it comes with a large decrease
in consumer surplus. So you need to
combine the change default with uh
another choice screen that comes sort of
later on. That is just one way that you
could design a policy that respects both
user choice and the fact that search
engines are experience goods. So people
need to get experience before making
their choice. And there are several
caveats for this study as with any
empirical study. I'm just going to leave
that up. Thank you so much for your time
and please come see me if you have any
questions. Thank you.