Title: Using LongMemEval to Improve Agent Memory
Video ID: FTokJt1ioeg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FTokJt1ioeg
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-08-25T16:08:57Z
Duration: PT13M40S
Views: 3378
Likes: 93
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 339

Description:
Sam Bhagwat, co-founder of Mastra and author of Principles of Building AI Agents, shares how they’ve been pushing the limits of agent memory. He explains the Long Mem Eval benchmark, breaks down why memory matters for reasoning across long conversations, and shows how simple changes—like tailored templates, targeted updates, and better data structures—led to state-of-the-art results.

Chapters:
00:12 - Overview of the Long Mem Eval Benchmark
01:15 - Understanding Memory in AI Agents
01:59 - Info

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm Sam. Um I'm the co-founder and CEO
of Mastra, which is a Typescript agent
framework. I'm also the author of the
book that was in on all the seats. Um
called Principles of Building AI agents.
Uh I'm going to talk today about a
specific benchmark that we worked uh a
bit on um optimizing our agent memory
around. Um so this benchmark is called
the long mem eval benchmark. Um, I'm
going to sort of mostly share this as
kind of
the the loop that we've been talking
about a little bit, which is
understanding your your systems
performance and optimizing that
performance. Um, and uh, as as the work
that we did um, here we sort of built
into um, MRA's um, memory layer. So you
know the great thing about frameworks um
before this uh before um starting master
I was the Gatsby co-founder and the most
of the team is the is exatsby folks. The
great thing about frameworks is that
frameworks encode a lot of uh
opinionated stuff so you don't have to
reinvent the wheel and so hopefully the
the work we did here a lot of teams will
get to will get to use. So what is long
meal? Let's start off with this. So, um,
also we we'll just start off with memory
because I'm just going to start with the
definition here. So, I mean, memory is a
is the compression of a a queue of of
chat messages, right? It's the ability
to sort of search over those messages in
a meaningful way um in response to user
queries um in order to meaningfully uh
respond and and sort of get the right
things into uh the context window um so
that the LLM is able to answer. So long
me val came out um late last year. Um
it's a benchmark of uh for agent memory.
There are sort of 500 questions um
categorized in various ways which we're
about to kind of like talk about. So it
turns out that um you know if you think
about this how memory works there it
kind of actually breaks down into a few
different sort of subtasks. And um so
what first first is kind of this idea of
um information extraction which means I
mean you can kind of see right so this
is sort of the simplest uh task that you
you can have um hey I have I need to you
know in a single session I need to be
able to see what did the user say or
like what did I as the assistant say
right um and can I sort of accurately
grab that information and and and put it
into context. Okay cool. Um what is so
then um the second sort of subcategory
of of memory right of this sort of
compression um is this kind of idea of
like multi-session reasoning. So you
know we all have these like long
longunning um window or longunning um
chat history and we need to sort of make
useful compressions of that. um can I
extract information across multiple
sessions
in response and and sort of pull that
all into the the context window in order
to let the LLM you know do some correct
reasoning over it. Um in this case you
can see like you know we might have to
sort of pull pull information about you
know musical instruments right and and
again if you if you're able to pull it
correctly then then you can answer the
question correctly if not you're you're
in trouble. Um this third one is you
know again temporal reasoning. So if you
sort of you're giving the user
information about timebased events and
can they sort or you're giving the LM
information about time based events in
in in the chat history and can the LM
can you sort of pull in the right
information as you're as you're doing
your retrieval um into the context
window so it can reason correctly about
that. Um, in this case, you know, um,
you you'll have,
um, you want to be able to say, well, I
went, uh, on this tour behind the scenes
today, but, my last museum visit was 5
months ago, right?
Knowledge updates are interesting. So,
um, I'll I'll just share a personal um,
I'll sort of uh, you know, share a
personal uh, story on this one first.
So, when I ask chat GT GPT who I am, it
responds that I'm a 5-year-old girl who
likes who loves Squishallows because um
I give it to my daughter and my son and
I guess it it updated who I was with
with my daughter and and so it thinks
I'm a 5-year-old girl who loves
Squishallows. Um but, you know,
realistically, right, like memory memory
has to update sort of uh specific
working memory stores user attributes.
Um and you know these attributes may
overwrite as as you get new information.
Um so you need to be able to again fetch
the right information in the right order
and put it in from that queue of
messages and and put it into the context
window so the LM can reason
appropriately in this case around a
vacation. Um and then um lastly, so like
the last sort of like subtask, right? Um
the you have to be able to
pull information and in a way that like
the LM knows that it does not have the
appropriate information um when it does
not have the information you need. So,
you know, this example is about a 10-gon
tank and a 20- gallallon tank. Um, and
we're in fact looking for a 30-
gallallon tank and, and it knows that it
doesn't have one. So, um, you know,
master agents, and I think this is, um,
you know, these are sort of fairly
standard um, these are sort of fairly
standard categories of of functionality.
But master agents have two main memory
types. um they have the ability to do
semantic recall and they have the
ability to you know do do working
memory. Those are sort of the most kind
of like the most important ones for for
this particular benchmark. Again like
semantic recall just how how does
semantic recall work? Um well, how it
works is that um you you sort of take
all of your um messages, you embed them,
you put them in a um in a uh vector
database such as PG vector or chroma or
whatever you would like to use. Um and
then you um then you search over them um
and then you know typically like so
that's the top K parameter in the in
semantic recall. Um, we also have there
we also have a message range around that
which is similar to like if you're using
like grap minus C, right? And you're
like searching some file, you're you're
going to want to grab the lines around
any of your specific matches. So there's
like a message range where you're
grabbing the messages around that
specific message. So you have sort of
the surrounding context that you need.
Um the the interesting thing I think
about working memory too is that like
you can imagine that the template that
you're using for memory matters. The
template is what specifies the
attributes that you're specifically
interested in. You can imagine if you're
building a personal trainer AI, that's
you're maybe interested in slightly
different things than if you're building
a legal research AI um application,
right? Um so I want to talk about you
know we we ran our existing
memory implementation on the long meal
um and you know we weren't really happy
with the results. So the
state-of-the-art sort of results started
at about uh 72%. Um and then I think
like our our initial um results got uh
got 67%. Um and when we combined our our
working memory and semantic recall and
we're like okay like looks like um our
implementation could could have been
better and so you know what can we do to
improve our implementation? Well good
thing we have a benchmark. So um we we
started off and and said like what what
could we do to improve how we're you
know how we're doing is measured by the
benchmark. And so the first thing that
we did is we sort of generated tailored
templates uh for each question. Um uh so
what what does that you know what does
that mean again like what the template
is should be specific to the question
being asked. We just wrote a script to
sort of lm LM generate um templates for
each question. And so the template could
be tailored to the question. And it
turned out that actually made our
working memory just used by itself a lot
more accurate. Um but really the the
weight of the the weight of the results
was on the semantic recall. So we're
happy that like our working memory was
better, but okay, cool. Like let's make
the semantic recall better. Um and the
the the first thing then that we um that
we sort of were then but actually like I
guess we we did so the next thing we did
actually was still on working memory. We
realized that our implementation of
working memory when we got like a new um
a new piece of information, we were sort
of asking the LM to rewrite the whole
working memory um like rather than just
overwrite that one specific part of
working memory. And so it sometimes
happened that you know those rewrites
were incorrect. And so we had a better
um you know results when we just did
more tailored targeted updates. And when
we did that, we again we found our
overall accuracy levels increased to
like state-of-the-art. So we were pretty
happy, but we were not like completely
happy. So we kept working on this. Um we
found some specific bugs with how the
messages were being presented. There was
some confusion around, you know, the
benchmarks were done at a specific date,
but then they're being run at a
different date. And you know, we all
know time is hard and and so it turned
out that um we were we're sort of
putting in the wrong dates. Um, and so
the LM was trying to reason over the
information, but was actually reasoning
over the information, being presented
with the wrong dates. And so, well, it
turned out that when we put in the right
dates, it was able to do these kind of
temporal reasoning tasks better. Um, and
so, uh, you know, we got another couple
couple percent on the benchmark. Um, and
then, um, you know, the fourth thing is
is, you know, data structure matters.
Um, we started we started grouping the
messages. is we were initially just
presenting them as like a flat list of
messages. Um we added we not only added
the timestamps next to the messages um
but we also um we also sort of grouped
them by you know day and then had the
hour time stamps and having it this
particular data structure again helped
the LM do sort of temporal reasoning
session based reasoning um better um
than than it had previously done. Uh and
and so you know these were again like on
a framework level you know sort of
general um we don't we didn't we weren't
making any sort of domain or industry
specific
updates because we're making a a
framework that's working across domains
and industries.
you know, these were things that are
within our control um as a framework and
we were able to sort of make significant
um get significant improvement with
these um with these changes. Um these
are sort of the the full results. I I
think the lesson if we look at the full
results is kind of configuration
matters. So if you look at like top K,
you know, for example, like if we set
the top K unrealistically low, something
like two, you get, you know, much worse
results than if you were to set it more
reasonably. And then, you know, again,
five versus 20. Um, we we did see a
significant improvement. Um,
in the beginning of the talk, I was like
talking about those five categories. You
can see them down at the bottom. You can
see the results broken down by category.
Um you'll notice that like again like
some of the if we look at like this the
um single session uh preference um it
it's not because it's single session
it's not very tied to semantic recall so
the performance didn't improve as we
improve top as we increase topk right I
think this is another interesting lesson
right like when you're writing evals
just make sure to be grouping them and
and some of your changes may change some
categories without moving other
categories Um
the the last um the the the last bit
here is is probably um there are other
there are other things we could have
done. There are other benchmark results
if you um there's another uh another
company that did a benchmark result that
used reranking. We we we don't right now
use reranking in our um in our memory
system. So uh uh so you know the next
the next steps are sort of like hey
we're going to like ship episodic memory
and see how the benchmarks change when
we ship episodic memory. We're going to
add kind of the ability to rerank and
see how the results change when we add
the ability to rerank etc etc. But I I
think like the you know the the TLDDR
here is that you know the in the the the
loop that leads to improvement is is
write a set of is write an eval scaffold
and then just iterate a lot. Um and that
that will that will lead to that will
lead to the results that that you want
if you sort of keep iterating at it. Um
and and it will generate the looking at
the data will will sort of like let you
zone in on sort of like where the weird
bugs are and um and just the and just
the odd weird things you can do to to
sort of like tweet to present the
information in a clearer and easier to
understand format. So thanks
[Applause]
[Music]