Video ID: GciivYKTK_Q
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GciivYKTK_Q
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1330
============================================================

[music]
Really excited to be here today with the
founders of Parahelp, Anker and Mass.
Parahelp is one of the top agentic AI
companies to come out of YC in recent
years and they've always been at the
cutting edge of building really
sophisticated agentic AI systems. So,
uh, today we're going to talk about
Powerhelp. Uh, they just recently raised
a a great series A. We're going to talk
about that. Um, and we're also going to
talk a lot about the technology behind
the scenes and some of the cutting edge
stuff that they've just released in the
last few months that I think is going to
really change the game for how the top
agentic AI systems actually work. We're
also going to talk a bit about the crazy
origin story behind this company and a
2-year pivot story that began in Denmark
and ended in this um, awesome series A
that they just raised. So, thank you
guys for joining us today. Thank you.
Parhelp has an incredible origin story.
Do you guys want to take us back to
Denmark and how this thing all happened?
>> So, both Mass and I uh grew up in in
Denmark. Uh and we often say we're from
Copenhagen uh because that's what people
know but we're not really uh both close
to Copenhagen. Everything is close to
Copenhagen if you've been in Denmark.
[laughter] Uh I grew up uh in a village
of 200 people. Uh and that also meant uh
that I didn't really have anything else
to do than be outside or code. Uh so I
began coding very early on. Uh then as
the classic consumer arc, I didn't
really know what B2B SAS was uh and how
to actually build anything of value
there. Uh so when I went uh to high
school, I met Mass. Uh we didn't go to
the same high school. Uh Mass started
already in middle school uh by building
his own fashion company uh and designing
there. Uh and then doing marketing as
well. Uh so we met through a fellow
friend uh co-founding uh an organization
for young entrepreneurs in Denmark to
get other high school students that were
interested in this together. Startups
are not really a thing uh in Denmark. I
think uh one of the fun things we often
tell people is that's actually not even
a word for startup in Denmark. So people
just say
>> really there there's no Danish word for
startup.
>> No. Uh people just say how's your
project going? But both mass and I after
we found uh startups I found coding and
mass designing and marketing. We had a
hard time concentrating in school. Uh so
we co-founded this club then instantly
started to work together. I realized u
that I was not very great at designing.
Uh Mass was and we need someone there.
Uh so Mass became really great at Figma
uh and product uh and I then did the
coding. Uh and then we built a lot of
consumer apps during high school. Uh
where I think a lot of founders uh
that's also where our love of building
the best product uh was born.
>> And these were projects. This is before
you started the like startup that became
PowerHelp. This was just you guys were
just like building stuff together for
fun.
>> Uh so we built uh a music app as an
example uh where you could uh create
collaborative playlist at events in real
time uh and then reverse engineer
Spotify's API to make that work uh
really well. Uh then uh we built uh like
an event finding app which I think is a
very common tit uh idea [laughter]
uh but that all of the
>> you got it out of your system.
>> Exactly. All of the nearby uh high
school used uh and then in like the last
uh year of high school I had also
started to code solidity already in
middle school. Uh so we're in the space.
Uh then NFTts started to actually just
explode in usage and all of our friends
were asking how do I buy this and this
seems way too technical. Uh and we
didn't really trade a lot. were very
into that but we thought there was an
interesting opportunity to make it easy
for our friends who were not technical
at all uh and a super interesting
product challenge. So where we raised
our first round and got into a real
startup uh was right after I graduated
uh and massed one year left of high
school uh we moved into a very small
office above a McDonald's and uh I
actually slept there for a while uh in
Copenhagen. Uh then we built this
investment app uh we were the first ones
to partner with Stripe in Europe after
many attempts of convincing them how our
system worked. Uh so you could actually
with Apple Pay buy an NFT and we then
took care of all the technicalities. Uh
then we also learned the hard way when
we finally launched and got through the
regulation uh that the NFT market uh had
gone from few million users uh to a few
thousand. The users that were left we
had not really talked with users. So as
soon as we actually started talking with
them we realized likewise it says that
these are not really users that care
about anything else than the market
going up or down uh and the product that
we're very proud of. Uh but that didn't
really matter if no one wanted to use it
>> uh unless the market was up. We couldn't
control that.
>> Uh so we went into full pivot mode. Um
and then actually inspired uh by another
YC company called Slope uh where we read
how they had pivoted. We did this where
we would sprint for 3 weeks uh on an
idea uh to actually like be courageous
enough in trying an idea that seemed
stupid perhaps because it was only 3
weeks. So the cost fallacy wasn't that
great if it didn't work. and then we
would write a postmortem uh if we didn't
pursue it uh to force us to actually try
and build and sell something. Uh that's
also where we traveled to San Francisco
for the first time and visited some
hacker houses and fell in love with it.
U so in uh January of 2024
>> and you guys were how old?
>> I was 21 uh at the time and you were 19
>> 18. Yeah. 18 20. Yeah. So when we got
into uh YC I just turned 22. We traveled
to San Francisco. We pivoted a lot and
in January of 2024
uh so um almost two years ago uh we then
moved into a hacker house in Berkeley uh
where uh we also uh met the same.dev dev
guys that convinced us to apply for Y
Combinator and there we begin exploring
the B2B space uh and had this co-pilot
which we got into with originally uh and
then already at the retreat uh I
remember we we uh discussed with you uh
and could feel that we had customers and
they were happy but they were not really
happy and sales cycles were long uh
because people were not feeling a
desperate pain uh and then we had sonet
3.5 launching uh and suddenly enabling
and this was at least our pieces uh
semi-reliable agentic change if we
sampled uh and this is where we then did
uh a few weeks later I think a classic
mid-match pivot of deciding to go all in
on end to-end resolution uh of support
tickets and then mass sent in just one
week 700 uh personalized cold emails uh
I think and we basically kept that up uh
all of our uh initial customers
including captions and perplexity were
called uh since we didn't really have a
lot of connections uh at all if any in
uh Silicon And we sent therefore emails
to all of the companies we thought uh
were cool. Uh and then pretty quickly
realized uh that for especially software
startups which all the companies uh we
were admires of we could build a much
better product uh if we focused on them
and therefore focused on building deep
integrations to their tools uh and
focused on building the best solution to
the knowledge management problem they
all had uh which really no other
verticals uh in the support space had.
And so the the current idea for
Powerhel, the thing you guys are working
on now, that was a mid-batch pivot
during YC after like a two-year journey
that began with like Robin Hood for
NFTTS in Denmark and somehow turned into
like aic AI for customer support teams.
So, a lot of pivots uh and I actually
like Maz and I have always uh and
sometimes we thought too easily uh been
great at pivoting because as soon as we
thought that this idea didn't really
work and we had the gut feeling, we just
couldn't work on something we didn't
thought mattered a ton. That's also why
we in some classes in high school had a
hard time concentrating if we knew the
subject. Wanted to build an hour startup
which we thought uh was way more uh
important. So we pivoted a lot uh until
then uh finding parallel uh and suddenly
uh feeling uh the pull uh way more than
we felt uh ever before uh and since then
uh it's been practicing continuing
obviously to stay alive but as Delton
says getting to the next level.
>> Why don't you just tell us what is
parel? So, Parah is an AI support agent
uh for customer service uh that resolves
support tickets into it and that means
using tools such as stripe uh or similar
uh to perform relevant actions and
follow complex instructions
>> and who's using parel now who are your
customers
>> par is built specifically for fastmoving
software companies. Um we quickly
realized uh during our beginning of
parel uh that if we built a solution
solely for them uh that would mean that
we could build a 10x solution focusing
on uh their problems and uh today
parahul is used by companies like
perplexity hun uh framer 11 labs uh
riplets motorroom many of the fastest
growing AI companies and also top AI
>> so the thing about power is it doesn't
just respond to tickets. It actually
takes action to like solve the problem
that the customer is reporting in the
support ticket. Can you give an example
of like an action that like you would
take on behalf of a customer? One
example would be a refund request. Uh so
a customer comes in and they request a
refund and uh the company then has a set
of criteria that makes that customer
either eligible or not eligible for the
refund. Uh and then what parallel does
is that parole first of all understands
those criteria. Uh so we are able to
follow complex instructions uh when uh
handling such a ticket and then parole
is also integrated into the billing
system that they use. So that could be
stripe for example where if the customer
is then ellegible for the refund parah
can go ahead and then process that
action in stripe. Parel is actually
directly connected to the company's bank
account and the company has effectively
authorized it to move money on the
company's behalf without any human
supervision. Is there like a human that
has to authorize it or like they trust
Power Help to just move money around by
because they know that it's going to
follow the the policy?
>> It's actually uh both. uh we've even
been the ones often pushing uh for human
authorization for certain things because
we've had customers uh being very
quickly to trust uh because we are uh
extremely uh reliable. Uh but we have a
slack approval flow for sensitive
actions uh where the agent the parallel
agent basically goes and says hey I've
just requested a teammate to look at
this I'll get back to you. Uh but then
because we build the agent to function
not like a workflow but an actual human
agent.
>> We just know that there's an ongoing uh
request that's pending approval. So we
actually often continue to chat with the
customer and answer other questions when
uh one of the billing managers uh
approves a Slack action. They just see a
summary. Then we go and execute uh the
necessary actions and follow up on the
customer. Uh but there's also uh
numerous billing actions for certain
customers where we've had 99% success
rate over a given time. When we first uh
got into YC last summer, we're building
a co-pilot.
>> Uh and then talked uh with you uh about
how we were kind of trying to help every
ticket for a customer uh which meant
that we didn't really have a lot of
success uh because then there were a ton
of tickets that were too complex. Uh and
at the same time we're very fortunate
timing wise uh because we saw Sonnet 3.5
come out uh and if we just sampled a lot
of Sonnet 3.5 tool calls uh and
basically simulated multiple agentic
actions at once every time we got a
ticket uh and then use different
heristics or them as a judge to pick the
best path. Uh then we could actually
call tools reliably uh and suddenly we
got sold on tow bench and we could
actually get to 50 or 60%. uh this was
again last year now we are uh way higher
for certain customers uh versus 20% from
using simple uh rack and there we built
a tool framework internally we still use
uh where every tool uh this also works
with MCPS uh but have a validate
function uh that can run deterministic
code checks uh if needed
>> I want to go back to the list of
customers that is that are using parhelp
can you say again some of the really big
customers that you guys have
>> so a company like Perplexity happened to
be our second customer uh that we
onboarded.
>> Perplexity was your second customer
ever.
>> Yes. Uh during the Y Combinator batch
and what we initially saw and what we
initially just wanted to test out with
parallel was that we could resolve these
complex tickets and that was the initial
premise of Parl that we can do that and
that resonated a lot with perplexity.
they were growing extremely fast and had
a lot of tickets that they wanted to to
resolve to the highest quality possible.
So that was what we we found working
with perplexity and then we just decided
to double down. Uh and since then we
have onboarded companies such as uh
Riplet also YC company, Photo Room,
Framer, Hen um and 11labs many of the
the fastest moving software companies
>> and not just the fastest moving software
companies but one of the things I think
is interesting about that customer list
is almost all of them are AI native
companies like these are companies that
were started recently that are
themselves building agentic systems
using LLM. Why are they using parahelp
rather than building this themselves?
>> Most of our customers find either by
building it or trying to enable the
default AI they have in their ticket
system. Intercom has a default out of
the box AI sendes front etc. But what
happens there just like a customuilt
system is that it works really well in
the beginning uh for the subset of
tickets where you don't need tools and
then what happens is that they're not
built for knowledge management for fast
growing software companies
>> because they are not by default
connected and that takes a lot of work
uh to all the context you have in linear
in notion in retool and in slack uh and
that's changing every day. This means uh
that it starts out really well and then
because nobody really maintains it.
Nobody has built a great system around
that then it actually diminishing uh
diminishes uh in return and your
resolution rate drops and even worse in
some cases customers actually get a
really bad customer experience uh
because it's out of date uh and there's
not any built-in review systems
>> uh which is what we've just done uh with
our research agent that can do real-time
QA uh on how our AI agent parallel agent
is performing. And then the other thing
is that tools may sound uh pretty
trivial to set up and a lot of other AI
uh support agent solutions also have at
least like on paper tool support. Uh but
then uh as you dive in uh you find out
that tools are way more than just
calling the API endpoint. is having the
proper guard rails and is also having
the proper evaluations set up to make
sure that when you have access uh to a
stripe tool and therefore a really
sensitive uh tool that's also connected
to a customer's bank account
>> uh then it should actually be called
correctly and it should always be called
uh correctly and having realtime monitor
systems uh for that uh and an evaluation
system which is what we've spent
probably engineering wise the most time
on building internally and just building
more and more automated uh but how do we
run evaluations
and how do we run them at all times to
make sure we're not regressing? Uh and
that our agent like today we're handling
thousands uh of tickets uh and curies
daily uh
>> per day.
>> Yeah.
>> There's thousands of customer support
tickets being closed every day by pair.
>> Exactly. And we're involved in uh etc.
uh which means that we can't monitor
this by hand at all. In the beginning we
onboarded captions AI as the first
company and then Plexity AI a week
later. All of this within 4 weeks of
pivoting. This also meant uh that we
were unsure about a lot of things. Uh I
and so we observed everything by hand uh
and was like figuring out how do we run
proper evaluations uh so we could
actually sit and make sure the agent was
steered in the correct way. Uh and
obviously we can't do that anymore. Uh
so having these automated systems built
uh I would say is key and what most
customers that tries to build internally
even when they're great at AI figure out
that it's actually much more than just
setting up a one timet
app or endpoint to our docs because
making sure that evaluations continue to
pass. We're not regressing and staying
in touch with both product and
engineering and marketing and sales at
all times.
>> Yeah. And the interesting thing about
you guys is your customers are B2B
companies. Their customers are this is
not like the customers of like Door Dash
or something or or like Uber where like
the customers are just paying them like
a few dollars per per transaction. Like
their customers are very important and
their customer support tickets are very
important. So they really care about the
quality of the resolutions to those
tickets.
>> Exactly. Uh and I think one of the
milestones or metrics uh we're most
proud of is that some of our companies
have entrusted us with handling
enterprise customers up to a thousand
seats.
>> Wow. Which is like pro probably a six
figure customer for them and they're
entrusting your agent to talk to their
customer.
>> And obviously we didn't start there. It
wasn't an accident that was like going
up from 20 members
>> and then 50
>> and then 100 and then seeing that we
continued
>> just just kind of following the
progression of a human customer support
agent, right? Which like probably starts
with the small accounts and then
graduates to like like the most
important accounts, right?
>> Exactly. And one of the interesting
things there where we're now uh able to
have larger customers is that we're
actually also working uh and one of
their biggest request uh is being able
to work in Slack because that's also
where B2B lives and a lot of our
customers want us to work uh in Slack
with their customers uh because that's
where the largest accounts is uh and we
can actually be on demand support
>> 24/7 too.
>> Exactly. And then we have the assistant
uh of parallel which lives directly in
Slack and on an interface and an app uh
you can open that proactively says I
need more of this, I need more of this.
And what the assistant then does is that
it builds this file system out of
knowledge. So we've thought that it
seemed like the model in frontier apps
uh we're doubling down on memory as a
concept. Uh so now an average uh
parallel agent for a customer has 40
memory files. uh I would say define that
parah is at all times figuring out how
to improve proactively uh by running uh
monitoring and evaluations uh as tickets
come in and every time the customers add
a new feature or we see it automatically
because it happens in linear or in the
health center or someone takes us in
Slack then the parallel agent goes just
like a coding agent uh and does file
edits per memory file uh to make sure
there's no duplicates. So the core agent
is actually quite simple because it has
all of these uh very general tools uh
that can then through complicated
policies uh be used. Uh so one agent can
respond in 15 seconds to a trivial
question uh for a customer and then we
can actually have an agent working for 3
minutes uh because it has access to 15
custom tools and it can go and look up a
request ID in data dog uh to help debug
with enterprise customer uh and it can
go and look at SSO policies uh and at
both internal and stripe data and
combine it and then reason for a long
time analyzing screenshots uh or similar
to then get back to the customer uh with
an answer that actually fits the way
more complex question than just what's
your pricing.
>> Recently you guys released your sort of
next generation agentic architecture for
power. Can you explain how it works?
>> Today uh we have two agents uh that we
work on uh and build with our customers.
Uh we have the parallel agent which
works directly in the customer's ticket
system. This enables customers to set up
parallel extremely quickly uh because
all you actually need to do is invite us
as an agent to your ticket system. So
you just send an email invite to the
peril agent uh and then we're live uh
without engineers needing to install any
SDKs uh or connect any channels. And
then we have the parallel assistant uh
which is what we just launched a major
upgrade uh to in terms of architecture
uh which is what enables our customers
uh to build and optimize policies uh set
up tools uh and then test everything
thoroughly uh before publishing to
production. And the peril pers assistant
is what has changed most uh the past 6
months. Uh so in the beginning and a lot
of our customers fast growing startups
chose us and still chooses us because we
can solve complex tickets. Uh this meant
that we were running uh a lot of
complicated evils into uh when
onboarding a customer and because models
were not intelligent enough we had to do
this manually. In a lot of cases, we
would run this uh via internal tools to
actually make sure that the agent were
optimized. Uh and if anything needed to
be fixed, we would often have initially
uh to go and actually prompt optimize
this forward deployed engineering
approach. This worked well. Uh but it
also meant uh that we were finding
ourselves writing a lot of custom prompt
optimizations that couldn't be reused
for multiple customers and we were
therefore taking a lot of time as we
grew a lot and had a lot of demand uh to
actually onboard companies. Uh and
suddenly we're falling behind in being
the fastest solution uh for setup uh and
a high resolution rate simply because we
couldn't follow demand without hiring a
lot of people uh that would do custom
work per customer which as someone
that's uh very product minded uh we
didn't really like and then Opus 4
actually came out.
>> I remember you guys came to me and you
were like our biggest bottleneck is we
can't hire enough engineers to be for
deployed engineers to be able to onboard
all these customers who want to use
powerhelp.
>> Exactly. Uh and then we tried uh to hire
a lot. We're still obviously hiring, but
we actually we also found uh that we
were probably not the best founders at
building a super execution and ops. We
were the best founders at building a
product first company. So the engineers
we wanted uh to hire were also the best
at building product, not building a lot
of manual work and being more
consultant. Uh so we wanted to keep a
small team and still grow extremely
fast. Uh and therefore we actually over
the summer uh had two months where we
paused growth and rebuilt our agent uh
architecture uh because OBS 4 launched
uh and this model for the first time had
enough intelligence on our internal
benchmarks to actually be able to
generate evil sets on the fly.
>> Wow.
>> So it's effectively like an AI for
deployed engineer.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Which meant uh that suddenly we didn't
have to do
>> custom forward engineering. Uh so we're
still big believers in for deployed
engineering as let's figure out what
works best for a customer and then take
it back to the product and build
something generalizable. Uh but since
launching this we haven't written a
single custom evaluation set because our
agent does it for our customers.
>> Wow. I wonder if this is the next
generation of the for deployed
engineering
trend that has overtaken Silicon Valley
in the last two years. The knock on for
deployed engineering has always been
that it doesn't scale and like this is
the answer. Like it scales if they're
all agents.
>> Exactly. And I and I think uh it's it's
definitely what we believe as in as the
next generation of vertical agents. Uh
we took a lot of what we saw and thought
worked really well with code agents. Uh
which are definitely implemented far
more wide than other vertical agents. uh
which was uh in our uh eyes being able
to run deterministic code and then the
agent to optimize so it could actually
work for much longer. Our agent can
easily work for 30 minutes today
>> uh or 40 minutes optimizing its own
policies and running tests
>> and then having a review system. So
those two things uh we were extremely
inspired by coding agents uh and then we
thought that worked well and with open 4
we could actually build something uh for
something that was a bit more complex
problem uh because our evaluation
framework is quite complex in order to
allow us to actually test complex uh
scenarios but open 4 could manage so to
say all of that context and also reason
about how to improve it. And then the
other uh big change we launched was this
research agent. Uh so we can actually
search with a grip like tool uh that
does a gentic rack uh and also searches
in semantics. uh we can search up to
20,000 tickets at a time and then we
look and analyze closely with a lot of
sub agents uh to manage context uh up to
500 uh tickets uh typically uh 50 to 500
where we actually open the full ticket
uh obviously with all sensitive
information uh removed and then we look
at exactly what was handled when did the
AI agent uh transfer or how did the
human handle it depending on what we
want to analyze and then we provide a
deep research report with sources uh and
all the tickets uh we analyzed and then
we suggest improvements proactively uh
that can be implemented straight away by
the support manager by just prompting uh
the agent in the same session please
I've just added this tool uh please have
a policy that now calls this to solve
this knowledge gap
>> uh or our uh research agent actually
being able to see what human agents
replied in groups and then uh
automatically saying it just looks like
we need to have this policy which the
human agent us and then I actually think
I can sell 5% more of these tickets.
>> The interesting kind of continuous loop
that all this enables together not only
the the research agent but also the
configure and testing agent is that you
can find these patterns in how humans
resolve tickets and then you can also
configure them and test them and publish
them and have this continuous loop that
at any given time uh optimizes the
amount of tickets that the agent is
capable of handling. Uh so it all kind
of ties together and that's the
interesting fly flywheel.
>> So one of the stats we've seen since
launching this uh for Perplexity uh as
an example just two weeks ago and having
this flywheel automatically set up that
will ping them in Slack and then prompt
them to give some information and then
the agent testing it itself and
optimizing is that we've seen their in
resolution rate uh go up about 12 to 15
percentage points uh depending on the
day.
>> Wow. just from this launching uh because
they've actually made 250 plus releases.
Uh this is 10 team members plus being
able to make releases depending on what
their subject matter experts in.
>> And is making a release basically just
responding to a Slack bot in many cases
where it slacks the team asks them like
hey how do I handle this and there's
like here's what you do and then it's
like cool got it.
>> Yes, pretty much. Uh and then also often
them opening a report uh that tells them
a deep research report. Hey uh we have
70% in trend resolution uh for account
management email issues uh if you give
me this policy or this tool
>> uh then I think we can increase this by
15% uh based on what we currently
transfer uh and then our agent typically
represents multiple paths in increasing
resolution rate they choose one or
multiple uh and just do what the agent
suggest uh is very much like VIP coding
uh in terms of we have human the loop
approval but then we say we suggest
implementing this policy. Uh then
perhaps they give a few lines of
feedback. The testing agent runs and
based on results either says we're ready
to publish or we should actually
optimize these policies as well because
two out of 10 test cases failed. Uh and
it seems like we need stronger prompting
here or we need to remove some outdated
information here. Uh and then we catch
all of those mistakes before going to
production and this loop just runs until
all test cases uh are passed uh and they
can click publish. We often give the
analogy to customers is that Parah is
kind of like having a thousand super
capable employees that are also getting
better every day
>> whose brains are linked together. So
when there's a new piece of information,
all 1,000 of them internalize it
instantly versus with a real customer
support team, you have to like
communicate things to everybody.
>> Exactly. Uh so what we are seeing uh
with perplexity as an example uh which
where we work super closely is that they
all today I uh believe spend more time
uh with parahul than actually responding
to tickets uh manually uh because this
is obviously where they have the biggest
impact
>> uh and
>> so so it's enabling them to have much
greater leverage as individuals.
>> Exactly. Uh what we're launching next
week actually a much requested feature
uh is that we're launching a mass
follow-up uh tool that the research
agent can call uh automatically uh so a
customer can actually say why do we have
uh 700 uh open tickets uh in the student
Q backlog uh if there were student
promotion uh or similar then the parahul
assistant uh agent reasons about this
says I need ABC endpoint uh a way to
verify uh or what should I respond they
give the instructions and then instead
of this actually only working for future
tickets which it will obviously do by
default it can actually say should I
follow up on all of these
>> 700 tickets
and it's like okay
>> just spawns a lot of parob agents in the
ticket system uh this has been quite
hard technically since 700 tickets at
once and then to be able to handle we
have a lot of spikes in our system
[laughter]
>> u but we use hatchet actually a y combin
company we just switched to uh which
we're very happy uh with so uh and and
greater handling this. Uh but then we
follow up on everything automatically.
Uh and what's quite cool uh and exciting
about this follow-up uh feature combined
with research uh and having context from
all of these systems uh is that we can
actually start helping our customers
with also being a customer success
manager uh and upselling uh customers or
going back to churned customers and tell
them about new features. Uh because
every time our customers launch a new
feature or solve a bug, it can just say
or the research agent prompts them
automatically, should we follow up on
every customer uh or reach out to every
customer
>> uh that ever requested this feature. Uh
and then we can launch this agent and
say, hey,
>> this is now available uh on our Pro Plus
plan. Uh so if you
>> That's a super intelligence version,
right? Like being able to go back and
respond to everyone who ever asked about
a feature with the last two years now
that you finally shipped it.
>> Exactly. Uh, and I think we're going to
see more and more of this once support
automation is actually at these like 85
to 95%. Uh, and like the rest of those
tickets you want uh a human to solve.
>> Then the next uh frontier uh to actually
have the best system is how do we make
support make it as revenue enabled uh as
possible uh and how do we actually
prevent churn. Uh so we're also
launching uh for our intercom or synes
front uh agent a tool that can give a
customer a discount uh so instead of
churning uh you can get a discount uh or
send the customer an upsell link and
then you can easily define the policies
you want around this
>> and suddenly for certain customers we
have
>> hundreds of thousands of tickets
resolved already. uh which means that
the parallel agent has hundreds of
thousands of emails of potential
customers that could be upsold to
business plans
>> or expanded significantly more. Uh but
the average uh team doesn't have the
resources to do this of the overview. Uh
but suddenly uh you actually do because
you have parallel
>> to your customers. How much of the value
prop is like reducing cost spent on like
hiring human customer support agents
slash the fact that they just like can't
hire enough good human customer support
agent because like they're hard to find
versus this stuff essentially being able
to do stuff with power help that like
would be impossible with humans.
Actually being able to increase revenue
by being able to upsell customers in
like a previously unscalable way.
>> It's much more the letter. Uh and that
also ties into us only focusing on fast
moving software companies. Uh so in many
cases they don't have a big team today.
Uh the the cost of support is not
necessarily super big. Uh but it has to
be big if they have to keep up because
they have to hire a lot of people. So
it's more so implementing parallel and
then parallel being that 100 agents that
they would otherwise hire. Uh and then
as we also just talked about having this
united brain of all those agents and
being able to not only have the impact
of one sole agent that could work 24/7
uh but have the impact of if all uh
agents uh that worked uh on specific
tickets had a united brain uh and they
could do all sorts of things uh and
controlling that. And another
interesting uh thing we've seen as a
value prop that kind of spawns once a
company is on boarded is that parub goes
viral inside the company
>> uh because uh support for a fast growing
software company is kind of the
knowledge brain and they start
>> directing all of their knowledge dumps
and information uh to the paral
assistant uh and this also like prompts
them for more knowledge. So very quickly
uh we have hundreds of pages uh of
knowledge that only lives uh in parallel
which we then uh have a principle of
making extremely easy to and accessible
extremely easy to access
>> for for the employees of the company as
well. Exactly. They they also need like
internal support. So we have ask SAM
which we call our agent typically ask
parah uh channels uh for sales
>> uh and for engineering and for
enterprise and for customer success
teams uh and even for the support agents
that are still answering like as a
co-pilot almost uh so we have
>> channels with hundreds of employees for
some of our customers uh where it's just
like proddding uh parallel and basically
being an extension of what the support
team actually served as a resource for
before. Uh and now with this deep
research uh we're not only able to say
hey uh please tell me how I can improve
resolution rate 10% which is how the
support team uses it but the product
team and engineering and leadership team
can actually say how has our refunds uh
evolved over the past month uh and like
how is that correlated with sentiment
and new features or box
>> uh and then figure out like how can we
cut uh refund uh percentage with 20%
just by following the insights that
peril can actually cross compare both
refund uh analytics with actual customer
conversations
>> and even also for product feedback. So
if they were to launch a new feature and
they want to understand how a customers
reacting to that feature uh then they
can also service patterns in that and
the product team can use that as a
reference on how to improve that new
feature. uh or even finding patterns in
feature request uh and seeing a lot of
customers are requesting that we build
this. Let's actually prioritize this
because we have the data now uh to do
so. Uh the same for bug reports. So it
it becomes this much more implemented
tool throughout the organization because
in many ways and that's software company
specific but in many ways for software
companies support is the epicenter of
customer knowledge um and product
knowledge uh which is the starting point
for a lot of work uh for the rest of the
organization.
>> Can we see a demo?
>> Definitely. Uh and I actually have it
pulled up right here. Uh so what we're
seeing uh is the parallel assistant
which is what we just launched uh
recently uh to be also in an app and not
only in slack. This is not what's
responding to customers directly. This
is the parallel agent uh we call it
which lives in a customer's ticket
system and this is instead the parallel
assistant which our customer in terms of
their support managers use uh to
actually create new policies create new
tools uh test and also where deep
research lives in terms of seeing the
results of the parallel releases you're
making.
>> So the assistant is like the AI or
deployed engineer. It's replacing what a
previously a powerhel the job that
previously a powerhel employee would
have had to do talking to the customer
and figuring how to update the power
system. You've built a AI assistant that
can just do that
>> and and being what we believe is the
future of how to manage an AI employee.
Uh instead of having workflows uh you
have this much more cloud code like
experience
>> where as you can see here so this is a a
demo environment uh for Riplet uh as an
example. Uh then we have an example uh
of a and we see this pretty common uh a
support manager saying what happens to
they if a customer inquires about an
enterprise plan uh on riplet and then uh
our and the parallel assistant actually
launches uh and very much like a coding
agent it searches through everything it
already knows and then it goes there was
actually uh no knowledge found uh and it
basically just tells hey this is uh what
we do today we don't have this custom uh
policy uh set up yet and this is uh an
example uh of how a support manager uh
would then direct uh the parallel page
and track to act differently. They give
us a policy uh to follow. So if a
customer is inquiring about enterprise
pricing or features uh and wants to know
more uh as an example get a pricing
quote etc. uh please direct them here uh
and then follow this policy uh in terms
of what to ask for and then we go uh and
just like a codegen agent we actually
update uh so this is all happening uh
right now it's released uh but
pre-release it's all happening in a
sandbox environment
>> and we go and update files u so this is
uh a classic diff that a customer would
see uh this is just to see that the
agent is working typically they just
review the entire output uh and actually
that the agent the assistant uh agent
review uh and test. Then it goes and as
you can see uh this is a pretty great
example because we actually update in
many places uh where there was
conflicting information uh which is what
we found other solutions can easily miss
uh or customers uh our customers can
easily miss because they have to find it
manually. Uh so we go and update both
subscription and billing uh FAQs and the
policies we have there. We update the
discounts uh policies because there was
something conflicting and we update
product technical uh and feature
questions policy. Our assistant agent
actually implements uh this in a draft
mode and says I suggest that we test it.
>> Uh so what you see here is that we have
this multi- aent system uh to manage
context where we have four modes uh and
we started in ask mode which is what do
we know today. Then the customer said I
want to do this and it automatically
switched to configure mode which is the
edit mode and now it says I think we
should test let's go to testing mode. Uh
and the last mode we have is this deep
research mode. Uh so this is actually
what enables uh customers with these
like four sub agents to switch between
modes in one session.
>> Is each of these agents is it a separate
prompt and like its own its own LLM call
with it with its own like prompt because
like the testing mode has like the
testing mode agent prompt. Exactly. Uh
and it also has distinct tools. Uh but
it's it's built in a way uh where it's
like unique prompts but then they also
share uh common prompts u because it
actually knows the parallel assistant
knows that it's working in a session uh
where it can as you can see it self
prompt that we should go to this mode.
>> Uh so we are primarily using uh modes as
a way of knowing when we should compact
a conversation uh to actually keep
context limited. So that's kind of a
great way of saying now we're starting
something new. Let's take all the
important context from the last uh but
actually restart the message history in
the cache. Then we go into testing mode
uh because we click run. Uh and this is
again all suggested uh by the agent. Uh
so most of our customers just click run
on everything suggested uh and then
chimes in
>> like uh pressing tap and cursor
essentially. You're just like tap tap
tap. Yep. Yep. Keep going.
>> And then these test actually runs. Uh so
as you can see we're dispatching test
agents for enterprise plan handling.
>> Uh we dispatch just one testing uh agent
that has five test scenarios here. Uh
and this can be everything from
dispatching up to five uh sub agents
that have five tests each if there's
something complex.
>> Uh it controls it itself. Uh and then
everything passes which is also why it's
then published. Uh and we have a work
complete uh down here. Uh and we then
show a preview of what was actually
tested, what was the message. Uh but
what happens behind the scenes is that
the testing agent goes and creates in
YAML and this evil framework we have.
And obviously like again a code gen
agent in terms of like passing this and
making sure it all fits uh our framework
and then it creates mock context uh for
all of these user inquiries to actually
have an enterprise state because that's
obviously required or say things uh that
incline that they could be a potential
enterprise customer. Uh so when the
agent actually checks in a given refund
policy as an example if you're improving
that uh and you say hey I want to change
our refund policy uh so it's within 14
days uh that you can get a refund not
only within 7 days you can get a full
refund uh or within 14 days you can get
a prorited uh refund then the agent
obviously have to make sure uh that it
can actually create context necessary to
test that scenario. Another thing we've
seen is that for all of our customers,
uh, we know when there's an outage.
>> Uh, so we're connected to the status
page.
>> Uh, so if you want to test outage
handling, uh, you obviously have to be
able to
>> to simulate
>> and the agent to actually simulate that
there is an active outage on the outage
page, but there's also how do we respond
when there's not an active outage?
Because then we obviously want to
troubleshoot further.
>> This is super cool, guys. I feel like
I'm looking at the future of how all
Agentic AI companies will do customer
onboarding. It's all going to be through
a system like this. And it's not just
onboarding, it's the continual
maintenance. To your point earlier, just
deploying a system like this is just the
beginning. Then you have to keep it
updated forever. If humans have to do
that, it's just not ever going to work.
It requires too much human effort. And
like the answer is to automate this as
well with something just like the power
assistant that you guys have built.
>> That's the bet. Uh and what's we've been
extremely excited to see the response uh
of so far.
>> You guys are really at the cutting edge
here. like there's a small number of
companies that are playing around with
this idea, but it's definitely not a
mainstream thing yet. You're one of the
first companies, I think, to get
something like this really working at
scale in the real world. We were
pressured by the urgency we saw in terms
of growth is everything uh and either we
were doubling down on trying uh to hire
a lot of forward deployed engineers uh
like many others but our I think gut
feeling was that uh we should build
product that scales and where we're not
writing custom code but we also want to
grow uh so we need this to work today uh
this is what caused a pretty intense
summer sprint uh I would say uh of
getting this out.
>> Okay, thanks so much for showing us the
demo. I feel like I got a peak into the
future there. Let's talk a little bit
about the series A um who led the round
and uh tell us a bit about it.
>> Yeah. Uh so Jack Almond uh at All
Capital uh led the round uh and then
Henabi also participated. Uh those were
the new investors. Uh and then we're
fortunate uh that all of our current
investors uh also uh participated.
>> My understanding is you guys were
fortunate enough to have many offers
from for the series A from many top
famous firms. What made you decide to go
with Jack Haltman and Off Capital? In
the beginning, we we started to know
Jack right after YC demo day uh because
he reached out uh and we didn't get the
chance to talk during YC fundraising uh
and then he came by uh our apartment
which was our office until until very
recently uh a month ago uh multiple
times and we talked really well uh and I
think as you also uh told us uh if you
are fortunate enough uh to partner with
uh investors uh that you actually really
like uh as well uh and are not only
great investors uh then you should do
had uh that's also why we chose our seed
investor uh originally. Then we really
like Jack. So when we started
fundraising, we obviously had to talk
[clears throat] with him. Then there
were as you mentioned also a lot of
other great firms in the run. Uh and
Jack was definitely an all capital and
underdog uh but we have also seen
ourselves as underdogs uh in in general.
So we kept talking with him and then he
won us over uh and I think we talked
with multiple of his founders there that
all had really great things to say.
David AI that was also in our batch uh
being one of them and the main
convincing uh argument uh that we also
very much agreed to uh was that this is
the first uh round where we actually
have someone join our board which Jack
uh have done. Uh so it means even more
who you choose uh as a partner. uh we're
very aligned with Jack and we very much
liked his approach which Blake Robbins
which led our seat round also had as a
thesis where it's not a huge uh VC firm
with a classic service team uh and many
partners chiming in on everything uh but
it's working really closely together
with someone that can come by for coffee
on a weekend in your apartment and
actually talk through things and we feel
like we can call about anything
>> to wrap things up somewhere in the
Danish countryside there's probably
another young Anker and Mass
watching this thinking about starting a
company themselves. What advice would
you give to that person?
>> Our main advice uh and what definitely
inspired us uh is to read and absorb as
much as you can of the Silicon Valley
history if you can't get uh to SF today.
I found in sixth grade Paul Graham
>> and his blog and that taught me what
were startups. And then when I met Mass,
we talked for hours about what was
actually this crazy startup idea because
again there's not a word for it. And the
classic entrepreneur story you hear in
Denmark is an MBA going to Mckenzie and
then at 35 creating a medtech or an
e-commerce or similar not
>> uh the guy or girl at their parents'
basement almost uh building an idea they
thought or think is crazy uh but they
really think is missing in the world. uh
which is very much uh what SF is all
about actually helping people realize
that they can just do things uh and they
should have the self-confidence uh to do
so
>> and and just do it. Uh that's also again
and again what uh we have been good at I
think looking back uh not being afraid
of just jumping in uh to the deep waters
and and just trying things out because
that is ultimately the way that you
learn the fastest. We don't have any
credentials that naturally would lead us
here. uh the the only thing that we have
is that we have experienced a lot of
different things by doing a lot of
different things.
>> In Denmark, there's a culture of being
very afraid of failing uh which we feel
is very unfortunate uh because Denmark
is probably one of the if not the
country uh where there's actually the
least risk to failing
>> because there such a big
>> uh social security net uh like you get
paid to study and education is free and
you can pick it up at any time as an
example. Uh the worst plan B you can
have is go to a great university with
great professors and get paid to do so.
There's a ton uh of at least possibility
of actually trying your crazy ideas. Uh
but then there's just a culture of
failing being bad.
>> Uh so you kind of steer away from it. Uh
and mass and I have failed a ton and we
continue to try and fail as much as
possible. uh we have this internal uh
saying of as soon as we start uh
thinking more about what we're afraid of
losing in terms of playing defense uh
and keeping our customers then we've
already lost.
>> Uh so we try to play offense as much as
possible which also means failing a lot
until that one idea then works.
>> Amazing. What a perfect note to end on.
Thank you guys so much. This was
amazing. Thank you. [music]