Video ID: gz4AKzSBwTk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gz4AKzSBwTk
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 976
============================================================

[Music]
Today I'm joined by Jacob and Miguel
from Revikat. They were in YC in summer
2018. What's the problem that Revikat is
solving for developers?
>> We help them make more money by making
uh inapp purchases easier. So making it
so you can build a mobile app and make
money and it's not so painful. So a lot
of YC companies um when they join YC,
they um apply with an idea, pivot,
figure things out. It might take some
time, eventually land a new idea after
some months in ADMAS. That's not you
guys. When I first met you, you knew
exactly the problem you were solving,
exactly wanted to build and had a good
idea on how big it's going to get. So
that's unusual and it's been consistent
from the day you did YC. Tell us what
that problem was.
>> Inapp purchases are hard.
>> Used they used to be harder.
>> Yeah. Well, before we came along.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh but yeah, Miguel and I worked
together at a company doing mobile uh
apps in the we started working together
in 2011 or something like this and um
yeah, we we were one of the first
companies to build subscriptions on
mobile and it was just such a painful
process like the app stores were tough
and they had multiple app stores.
>> You built this thing yourself for
another company before you started
>> you actually did it multiple times too.
Yeah, you keep iterating and also down.
You didn't we were we we really didn't
know what we were doing. Yeah. I mean
probably half of our engineering efforts
were just around
>> Yeah.
>> monetization and we were very small team
but because of that it was like
engineering was like distracted with
essentially like monetization. When
you're a small team you don't have time
to be messing around with payments,
right? You want to just build what your
value prop is. And
>> and the problem was how to handle a
subscription across platforms. It was
crossplatforms even
>> how to grow the business too. That was
the problem. Once you find it working
then you need to analyze the data you
need to grow do price testing do payroll
testing things like that. So it's it's a
lot of engineering effort and something
that is not unique to your company.
>> Why wasn't this all by either Apple or
Google at the time?
>> I mean there's a bit of it's their sort
of monopolies on their store. So they
don't really have an incentive to
compete to make their payments system
better. um not say they don't do a lot
like they're they're they're really
powerful systems but they don't have
that same level I think fit and finish
as like a as like a free market solution
would
>> and also they're different you need to
unify everything if you want to see the
full picture so that's already a big a
big challenge
>> no matter what like they're they're not
incentivized to make it work well with
Google and vice versa right so like we
provide that layer as well right so left
a lot for developers to do and it was
just like purely a loss for the app
stores like developers were spending
time on things that consumers don't
really care about right so it's like it
was just benefiting nobody.
>> I think one one thing that that that is
very important too is the fact that even
though we knew the problem really well,
we solved it for one particular app and
we needed to solve it for tens of
thousands of apps.
>> There was some benefit there too of like
we were able to take we we had a strong
opinion like we were like hey this is
how it should be done and we were kind
of able to bring a lot of companies like
into that like the revenue cat way like
come into like this is how you should
look at your data. This is how you
should do your subscriptions. this is
how you should manage this stuff and we
kind of set a standard too which I think
was was good but yeah like we had lived
that suffering which like made those
first initial customer calls so easy cuz
like I was like hey like I know what
you're going through right and like you
can trust me um and that that that's
huge in the beginning
>> but most people who experience a big
problem company and they solve it aren't
leaving to start a company like what why
did you two guys leave to start a
company
>> I mean I had always wanted to start a
company I had like entrepreneurreneurs
in my family and stuff like that um but
I'll say Like it wasn't until much later
that I realized like, oh, this can be
like financially very lucrative, I
guess.
>> How late did you figure that out?
>> Like series C.
>> Oh, maybe series B. Uh cuz at first it
was like I this is just like a cool
thing. I I lived in we lived in Silicon
Valley for a long time. It was engineers
and like I'd seen it, but I never
thought of myself as like somebody who
could play that game. Like I was always
like, "Oh, I can be here, but I'm like
sort of not on that level or like I
didn't really." And even when we started
the company, it was just kind of like,
"Oh, I don't know. That sounds like a
fun thing to do, you know, with a
friend.
>> I always wanted to do it because I
always like the zero to one, which is
interesting now because we're at a
different stage and you need to
>> zero to one only lasts finite period of
time.
>> Exactly. If things are going good, yes,
that's what's going to happen. Uh but
yeah, no, I also respect this guy a lot
and really enjoyed working with him and
I think it was like the right time, the
right problem, the right person.
>> We had talked about turning the idea
into a business much earlier than we did
like two years earlier because we were
just like this is obviously
undifferiated work that should be a
service. So we we were shopping. We were
trying to find somebody and then we just
you know life and just the timing wasn't
right. And eventually I was like I
turned 30 and I set a deadline for
myself. I was like when I turned 30 I'm
going to do a company and and I was like
maybe 6 months late that like um kicked
it off.
>> You and me sat in a conference group in
at YC back back then. You were just like
with a lot of clarity describing exactly
what the problem was where you going to
build and to me actually that this could
get everybody had this problem. It's
going to get really big but you had no
customers at that point. So, but you
were still very confident that this is
going to be a thing. And the cool thing
about you guys is like it actually
turned out pretty much exactly the way
you described it in that conference room
in 2018. At least for the next like five
or seven years is sort of like
inconsistent.
>> It's it's uncanny sometimes. I I had
like a big doc I wrote for myself like
back before I even called this guy to be
like, "Hey, let's start." Like it was
like, "Okay, how big can this get? How
is this going to work? What are going to
be our our" And like 80% of it kind of
and I don't know if it's because we were
working off of the dock or because I was
just really probably more the doc inform
the world.
>> It's interesting to see that a lot of
the things that we were discussing or we
were thinking of building back in 2018
are now starting to be fully realized.
>> Even like our dream product road map
from then it took us a long time to get
to the point where we could do it but
like we're still building stuff that we
had written down in 2018.
>> So, so maybe go back to the batch a
little bit. So, how specifically did you
get the first like five customers? Like
what like those specific things you did
first 10?
>> I would just reach out because I was an
iOS developer and that was always like a
pretty in demand skill set. So I would
just email them and be like, "Hey, can I
can I get access to your code and like
fix some problems for you and then I
will add my SDK. That's the exchange.
You don't have to pay me. Just let me
add this and have 1% of your revenue in
perpetuity." You know, that got us into
a few. Turns out though, like timing is
really hard. So like I did that for a
few people, but then they wouldn't ship
for like 6 months. So our first
customers ended up being random people
from the internet. Even during YC, like
I would I would go it was very much the
the callison install, right? like I'd go
to their office, I'd spend a day with
them and I would always try to like, you
know, you put extra fries in the bag.
So, I would like do the integration, but
then I would like if I found some bugs
or issues with their app, I would fix
them as well just to like be like, "Oh,
I noticed that this like page had like
this like one issue, so I fix that for
you guys, too." And they' be like, "Oh,
you know, these are teams with hands
full of people, right?" So, these are
very very very grateful. But it was only
I think when we got in, we started YC,
we made like five or six apps using
Revenue Cat.
>> Um, during YC is like when it really
started to accelerate. That was one of
the things like you you helped us with
was like you had worked with so many
consumer apps that had the problem and I
think you got me in touch with like 20
of them and maybe like 10 switched over
like the YC brand effect really helped
cuz it was like hey Google says these
guys are serious I'll take them serious
and then we got a couple like serious
apps and then that creates this like
sort of like social proof loop where
it's like hey like okay not only do
these guys know what they're talking
about like other people have trusted
them and so maybe I should trust them.
There was also the realization for us
during YC that we got asked the question
of like oh what what needs to happen for
this company to be worth a billion
dollars and I was that was something
that I had never thought in my life that
it could be a reality
>> group office hours. Yeah. And I was like
come on like what kind of question is
that?
>> You're trying to make it worth a million
dollars. So let's start there.
>> Are some of those kind of companies
still using it today?
>> I think all of them the ones that are
extant.
>> That's market fit.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Basically switching over the first 10
out of 20 customers and they all
customers
>> seven years later.
>> Yeah. It was also in that doc we talked
about. I talked about hey it's like we
may not be able to get the big like I
can't get Netflix to switch over
probably but if we can get as many apps
as possible somebody the next Netflix
will like rise up in that and that's
kind of proven to be true like some of
those apps were pretty early stage and
now they're massive right um so yeah we
I mean we just did anything possible for
those first like first like 100
customers or not even like first like 40
customers whatever it took and then we
started I started to notice we had
product market fit when I had to do less
of that so like when it just started
each month we you're getting more
customers and I wasn't doing anything.
Like I was just like everything's going
slightly faster and slightly faster and
you don't know why. I think that's the
key for like
>> Yeah. For me it was the servers. It was
like
>> yeah the server started breaking.
>> Yeah. It's like okay how long how long
can we sustain this this this load?
>> Honestly we spent from like 2019 is kind
of when we were like we might have
product market fit to like oh my god
it's killing us. But yeah I remember
sending out there was this like first
round survey like product market fit
survey like oh send this if you have
greater than 75% you have like product
market fit. And I sent it out. We had
like 92% or something. I was like, cuz
you don't want to say it, right? Cuz the
product market fit is this mystical
thing and like so many like such a
graveyard of startups that thought they
had product market fit and didn't. So
you're like I was so hesitant to be like
I think we have it. But eventually it's
like yeah like I was saying the servers
are falling over. You probably
>> the servers and the bandwidth like when
when customers were as so actively
asking for things that we didn't have
the bandwidth to build
>> it was like okay they really like this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You just everything
feels on fire. you can't keep up. If
you're having to like decide what to do
every week, you probably don't have
product market fit yet, right? Like if
you have it, like you just have no you
have you just there's there's a list of
9,000 things to work. It's just a matter
of like prioritizing for the people
watching. Um let's say there's another
team of two people want to sell to
developers. What is your best advice on
how to sell to developers? Like if you
built your thing, you know nothing about
go to market or marketing, what should
they know?
>> I think I think most developers don't
want to talk to sales. That's
>> something you say often. don't do sales
yet
>> and everybody's going to tell you to do
sales and you just have to ignore them
or like convince them you're doing it
but don't do it and the reality is is
like you're always doing sales. It's
just like doing it for developers is
very different. Yeah. You
>> I was like
>> it's like answer their questions, right?
And like their questions are often
technical um and then they might get
into like non-technical, right? But they
almost always start technical, right?
They don't they don't start with like oh
executive stakeholders and then we got
to push this thing down. Like that's how
like a lot of traditional SAS is sold.
developer based stuff is not sold like
that. You can, but it's like massively
inefficient to start there and push
down. It's so much more efficient to
like put it out there, make it easy to
use, make it easy to adopt, and then let
developers just pull it in because like
a developers, they've got a mission.
They're like, I'm going to do a thing.
And you want them to find you, and then
you want them to be able to put you into
their product as quickly and easily as
possible. And then once you have that,
then it's pretty much as long as you
deliver on what your promise is, like
it's easy. And don't underestimate the
long tail and the indie developers
because they are the ones that can like
they will try a lot of stuff for you and
are champions and the word of mouth is
crazy. And then they might go and work
for a bigger company.
>> They they almost all do, right? They
work for bigger companies. It creates
like this ground swell. They create
content on their own that like then
reinforces. So like I I think I think
you can you can go after a lot of
different scales of customers, but I
think the the value especially in
DevTools of small customers is
understated.
>> And and now you guys are a big company.
How big is the company? 105 people or
something like that. Yeah.
>> How did you two make sure you don't lose
touch with the customers when you got
105 people?
>> Uh well don't worry they find you. Uh
honestly Twitter X.com the everything
app. I still like I'm on there every day
and like uh customers can reach me. I'm
always tweeting about our product
interacting with them. This is a small
trick on on a a social media like X like
I I get followed by you know I get
followed by a lot of people you know but
if I see anybody as a Revenue Cat
customer I always follow them back.
Always follow every Revenue Cat
customer. and like big or small like I
don't care like it just fills my feed
with customers and then every day I open
it up and I'm seeing like the good and
the bad and what people want and that's
just like an easy way.
>> The conferences too some of I mean
depends on the conference there's
different returns of investment but
developer conference can help a lot and
you end up seeing a lot of people in
person and and they in person is more
useful to know what things are working
well and what things are not working
well and what their frustrations are and
people are very honest. you you really
like have to make time for it. And what
I just do is anytime a customer reaches
out and like wants a meeting pretty
much, I'll say yes. And I even if I'm
busy, I'm like I will say yes because I
know it's good medicine. Like I just
need to be having these conversations.
Even if they have an asked for me that's
maybe I don't care that much or
whatever, I just get in a room, talk to
them, hear their problems, and that will
inform.
>> Can you kind of enforce that or or try
inspire that to the team?
>> Absolutely.
>> I always say they're not the pope. Like
you can just talk to the customer like
they don't you don't need an you don't
need a request. There's no formality.
just send a customer an email, get them
on a phone call, like everybody has
permission to talk to, which I don't
think that's true at all companies.
>> No, it's not.
>> It's crazy. And I mean, maybe there's
reasons for that at scale, but it's
like, you know, I figure if somebody
can't have a like normal conversation
with a customer, you're probably not fit
for my team. You know what I mean? Like
that should be like a bar that you can
just like talk to a customer. But yeah,
we try to encourage people. And that's
also what, you know, X is good for.
Wherever your customers are, just
getting your team there, too, so that
they're like able to just have normal
relations with customers and talk to
them and stuff.
>> One thing I found extremely impressive
about your company is that you've been
consistent from probably 2018 until
today about what metrics matter for your
company, how you report on them, that
you are basically sending the investor
updates on the day of for like all of
these years
>> become a compulsion. A lot of people
don't have the discipline to do this
because like when things go bad they
stop sending them or when things go bad
they change the metrics and like you've
been consistent for so long like is this
how you run the company? Does everybody
know all the metrics? Does everyone
everything? Tell me about that.
>> I think it creates discipline is maybe
the right word but it just creates like
some reality that I have to live in.
Like I have to be honest with myself
because yeah like my investors get all
the data like my team gets 99% of that
data. If I stop sending something it
would be very obvious, right? and they
would make you question why. And yeah,
and I I I I you know, if it's a Sunday
or whatever, I'll do everything I can to
get it to get that. I've missed it a few
times, but usually within the first
three days of the month and yeah, the
the the the metrics that I send in those
have only changed like three or four
times in eight years and in very minor
ways, right? Um and so you you need to
just have like a consistent grounding
truth to like look at. Um and that the
exercise is as mostly for me, right?
It's like to sit down, write it. A lot
of like leaders on our team will also
have adopted it. So organically they'll
send a support update with like a
similar cadence.
>> The transparency helps a lot because we
are fully distributed in many time
zones. So the only way to make sure that
people know everything is to be fully
transparent because otherwise you don't
know who knows what or whatever.
>> I know people are like send investor
updates but it's good companies that do
well send investor updates but I'm
always like I almost don't think that's
ever going to help because I think it's
mostly an outcome of a personality type.
Like I have noticed it is mixed on who
does them and I think it's mostly down
to the person and then but I also think
there's a correlation between the person
who sends updates and the person who is
successful. I think there's like some
like underlying correlated trait there.
You're a fully distributed team. Were
you remote prior to COVID?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Barely, right? Just sort of
accidentally.
>> We locked out a little bit there.
>> Yeah. How did you make this call and
then
>> hiding in the Bay Area? It's not easy.
>> Yeah, it was hard. It was during like
the peak of like Fang basically hiring
everybody in the Bay Area for insane
numbers. So yeah, we finished YC in
2018. We raised a million and a half
bucks, which was a that was a big seed
round in 2018. And uh we we were able to
hire like two of our friends who were
surf buddies who would just would take a
swing and whatever. And then one guy who
was like inbounded to us and like I love
the idea. I really want to work there.
After that, that was kind of our hiring
pool. We kind of ran out. And then uh
sort of simultaneously we had one of the
people that had joined wanted to move
and then like we a friend of ours who we
wanted to hire was in Taiwan and we were
like okay we'll just we're just remote
now. We're going to try it. We copied
what GitLab had done and all of that
stuff and and then co happened like 6
months later. So we had like prepped for
this and then when it happened it was
very easy to flip that switch. We had to
adapt many things but and again it has
advantages and disadvantages obviously
but yeah we've been able to hire people
that we wouldn't have been able to hire
otherwise and also we have we avoid all
the visa immigration situation problems
that I have to suffer
>> if you're in a coastal like one of the
tech hubs and stuff like that obviously
it's like competition is kind of you
know it's easy there's a there's like
recruiting events every night of the
week which is like I'm great everybody
should go interview and get your the
best deal you can but like uh something
about having a remote um company makes
people a little more I don't want to say
loyal But like a little more like they
join you for a reason, right? And it's
not just like oh because it's in my city
>> and you're probably extremely
competitive where they are.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that too like
yeah we have a lot of like uh like
compensation leverage.
>> Are there things you are intentional
about to run the company remote like
like what what are some things that
someone can take learn from on how to do
this well?
>> Having a clear compensation philosophy
and you don't need to agree every every
compensation philosophy can be
different, right? But at least having it
cons written down and consistent has
been super helpful
>> just in general systems thinking for a
lot of things that like you wouldn't
necessarily systematize like it it has
its benefits and downsides sometimes
like we're just trying to fix a simple
little problem but it's like oh we have
this big system so now we have to like
figure it out and like Slack just
becomes your office and you're just like
on Slack all the time or like you make
make Slack interactions very casual. Um,
and then just, yeah, everybody needs to
like write and create artifacts like
looms and videos and and all this stuff.
And I think generally it just also makes
your it makes your communication culture
better. I still think if I could like
magically teleport my whole team into an
office every day and then teleport them
back to their houses, I would do that,
right? I think um, but I can't, right?
Um, I love when I hire people not having
to really worry where they are. Like I'm
just like, where do you live? I don't
care. Like, are you in roughly these
time zones? Awesome. Like, uh, let's
work together. And so when I look at the
team we've been able to assemble, I'm
like, there's no way I'd built this team
if we were like confined to a city,
right? And I hear a lot of founders like
being like, "Oh, we just spun up this
office." A lot of office drama. Like
we're doing this and that. I'm like, I
just don't have to worry about it. Like
I just, you know, we have no physical
assets, no buildings. It's amazing.
>> And for a particular product to it also
helps having people distributed and uh
because we're critical infrastructure.
So having somebody always up is also a
>> That's awesome. Yeah. The sun never sets
on Revenue Cat. You're in an ecosystem
surrounded by Apple, Google, probably
Stripe and a few other enormous
companies. Like do you worry that one of
them just like run you over one day or
>> Yeah. I mean to some degree
>> the good news is that while since you
started the company the app stores that
they've built are enormous. Yeah. Like
which benefits you massively
>> like 10xed, right? And there's a bit of
at now with our scale some mutually
issue destruction, right? Like we're
representing such a good chunk of their
their customers that like it would be
hard for them to like
>> hurt us too much. and we have good
relationships like both formal and
informal. Um, so we do our best there
and also obviously it's like always a
risk. Um, but I think that's just the
reality. It's hard to build a business
in 2025 in like a completely green
field. I mean in AI like everybody
depends on other people's models and
stuff like that. And I think you can't
ring your hands about loss aversion
about what happens if it's just like
build if you build something massively
valuable it's you know it's very
unlikely that it's going to like
disappear overnight.
>> When you started the company you worked
together the previous job for for how
long? Like
>> four years three years something like
that.
>> Do you guys know each other pretty well?
Yeah. Yeah. And we were like friends
too. Like we went surfing and like all
that stuff.
>> Then you're co-ounders. Now you have
over 100 people. Like how has the
co-founder relationship changed over
those years? And it's a marriage without
the good parts.
>> Not like any other relationship in your
life. It's not like a friendship. It's
not like a It's not like an employee,
you know, co-orker relationship. It's
not like a marriage. Exactly. But it's
kind of close to all three of those, I
would say, in different ways.
>> What's some advice for people who are
just getting started on how to like not
 up their co relationship?
>> Yeah. Well, I think it has to start from
a basis of m mutual respect. If that's
not there, it's very difficult, right?
The thing that we we disagree all the
time, but I know we are very aligning
philosophically most of the things. So,
it's usually not something that is it's
when it's something unclear, right? And
when it's something unclear, fully
trusting that the decision is not to try
to screw the other person. Otherwise, if
you have that in the back of your head
like, oh, this person is trying to screw
me, then it's never going to work
eventually. And do you have a weekly
call that just talk about like
>> Honestly, we don't like we don't. It's
like
We used to and now it's just like we
just have a if if make all calls or I
call you you pick up like kind of deal
and then we try to as often as we can
being remote like we often train try to
create opportunities for us to be
together and hang out and like that
helps.
>> I think working at a startup also also
helps because we saw like the good and
the bad parts of a startup like the
highs and the lows. So
>> we were able to pick a lot of what we
experienced together at that company and
like pick the good parts we wanted to
take and the bad parts we didn't want to
take. Um which was helpful. Um, but I
would also say like just invest in the
relationship. You know, you don't have
to go on like a a whole vacation
together, but like you know, if you can
go to a thing and like spend some
quality time and do some stuff just with
your co-founder, everybody's got to
figure it out for their own like balance
of personalities and stuff. Um,
>> so you mentioned earlier that you had no
idea like how to get a billion dollar
company. Uh, well, you're on track for
sure. So being part of YC and then
everything post has been like
progressively having somebody force my
like vision further and higher, you
know, because I've always just been like
problem in front of me, you know,
whatever. I I tell people like I've I've
been running out of excuses as to why we
aren't going to be able to hit that. Do
you know what I mean? Like it's been I'
like oh this the market's too small. Oh,
like I'm going to get tired. Oh, Miguel
and I are going to fight and break up.
Oh, like we're not going to be able to
hire. Like we've kind of like
progressively solved like each one of
those. And like each one of those may
also become unsolved over time. Like
they come up and they come and go. And
so, so now it's like, you know, yeah, I
still remember that YC uh office or the
group office hours where we had to go
around and I laughed at myself.
>> The question was, um, what have to
happen for you to be be a billion dollar
company or 100 million revenue? Like,
put the pieces together.
>> Yeah. And I just was like I was I was
like, I'm never going to be able to do
that.
>> Yeah. I was doing the math and I was
like, "Oh, there's not that many apps."
>> Yeah. Yeah. And uh and that's become
like one of my chips on my shoulder
because like I became in that moment
like my greatest detractor and like I
didn't believe in myself. And now like a
big part of my motivation is like
defeating that kid, right? Defeating
that guy cuz like obviously we we can do
it, right? So now it's like yeah, we're
kind of on this trajectory where we
might pass that pretty soon. And like um
so it's like well can we do 10x that
right? Like what's a $10 billion vision
look like?
>> Is there something in in the way of
that?
>> I mean there's yeah there's like
problems, right? Like we got to new
markets. We got to build new things.
Like we have to you know our market's
grown 10x. Will it grow 10x again?
Maybe, maybe not. But yeah, there's
there's there's new and interesting
problems. I think that's kind of one of
the things that I would not have
suspected that I would be so excited and
engaged as I am like almost a decade in.
But each like layer you break out of
like the problems kind of like repeat
and rhyme but on new scales and like
it's sort of this perpetual busy box for
me like oh new interesting problems like
new scaling things. You also get to meet
like really great people. I think that's
the biggest thing is the culture. Like
if if you're able to build the culture,
maintain the culture, then then you can
fix all the problems.
>> And you can do that as a founder. That's
that's the advice I would give to
people. Like if you don't like coming to
work, fix it. Like you you have that
power. Your investors,
>> they might be telling you things and you
like listen to that advice and then it
actually makes your company worse. Like
they're they're trying to help but
they're they don't know how really. So
like first and foremost, make it a place
you're excited to come to work every
day. And then like then that's when the
magic happens, right? and in and we
internalizing that the journey is the
the thing that's the important part.
>> Well, because the velocity is what gets
you there, right? So, it's like if you
can just optimize for like the
day-to-day and the and the velocity and
the excitement and the energy like you
and and just make sure you're like it
goes back to the every month I just want
to make sure like I have a little bit of
up like every month something is moving
in a good direction every month and
don't worry about how that's going to
compound in you know 120 months. just
worry about okay like how do I just each
month and then yeah you suddenly you
wake up one day and you look backwards
and you're at the top of this like
exponential slope.
>> I have one more question about the
market. Uh there was a case between
Apple and Epic uh that changed a lot
about what you're doing. What what
changed?
>> Yeah. So Epic's been suing Apple and a
bunch of different venues. Epic tried to
like put non- inapp purchases through
the basically they broke the app store
terms in order to draw a case where they
could bring like you know essentially
like an antitrust investigation against
against Apple and it happened and they
they lost a bunch of their their claims
but they did get a couple through and
the end which happened recently was like
a judge came down and said in the US
like you no longer Apple can no longer
prevent you from adding alternative
payments to the app store. Um, from
everything we've measured, the the
actual impact has been like u slightly
positive, somewhat minimal. Um, which I
think is like much less what people have
predicted. They're like, "Oh, the app
store is this massively inefficient
thing that's like capturing a lot of
this value." It's it's not as far from
like market optimal as people think. I
think it is. Um, it definitely is. I
think my my opinion would have been like
it would have been nice if we could skip
the whole case as Apple would have just
like liberalized and like we could have
just got here on an economics argument,
but like we are where we are. But I was
just it's so funny that like I never
would have thought inapp purchases 10
years in we'd be at like the center of
like a Supreme Court case. Like it's
like too like it's become a much bigger
story than I ever expected
>> because what you do is so big like like
you're at the sneaky big. Yeah. You're
sort of like a thing of the really big
thing in in mobile.
>> It's kept it interesting, right? Like
I've had to read a lot of uh amicus
briefs and uh we've had a couple uh
subpoenas along the way, but like it's
been good.
>> For aspiring founders, there a lot of
them watching these this channel. Um
what are some advice you have just like
general things you knew you wish you
knew when you started revenue cat?
>> Do y
uh and don't follow anybody else advice.
>> Follow your heart.
>> Yeah. I mean I think to some degree you
have to wait. You get to a point where
you can truly follow your heart. There's
a lot of glass you have to eat. Don't
expect it to be all that fun for a
while. And then there's fun parts of it.
It's exciting the whole time. It like I
give you a heart attack kind of exciting
in some ways, right? Um and I don't
think there's any way through that like
magically.
>> Oh yeah. There are hard things that you
have to do.
>> Yeah. And just expect that. Like expect
to have to talk to customers at all
hours and get woken up and like have to
like work long whatevers and have
everybody else on your company, even
though they're great, not work as hard
as you or care as much as you. And and
and that's, you know, as I say a lot,
that's what the money's for. You know,
that's why we make the big bucks, right?
>> How do How do you not give up?
>> Uh, you have a suicide pack with your
honor.
>> That sounds either way.
>> Like, basically, I'm not going to give
him the satisfaction of me quitting
first. So,
it certainly helps, right? It certainly
helps. Um, I think that's where it goes
to like build a company you want to work
at. Have a mission you really care
about. Like, I care more about the
mission than I do like revenue caps,
financial outcome at this point, right?
And it just happens that those things
are very aligned.
>> Yeah. I would say just like buckle up.
>> Yeah. not not quitting is a big part of
it and I think if you get to if you are
lucky enough to get to the whole product
market fit phase then there's a lot of
things that would make you quit are
under your control
>> and as somebody who's come from being an
employee or like first company and like
all these fancy investors and all this
whatever it's like look if like they
could do what you do they would do what
you do right like I don't mean to be
like but belittling the investors like
they're great people and like they're
very important to this ecosystem but
like there is something that you can
provide that they can't so like trust
yourself and like, you know, ultimately
make something people want, right? Like
talk to your customers. If you're
producing value for people, you're going
to figure it out, right? Thank you guys.
Great.
[Music]