Title: Fireside with FTC Chairman Andrew Ferguson
Video ID: hFodoGofMtg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFodoGofMtg
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T17:59:29Z
Duration: PT25M13S
Views: 374
Likes: 4
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 659

Description:
Interviewed by Garry Tan, President & CEO of Y Combinator.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Chairman Ferguson, thank you so much for
joining us today. Thanks for having me.
Really excited. So, uh, when President
Trump announced you would become chair,
uh, he specifically called out some of
the challenges that big tech creates.
Um, how is the Ferguson FTC going to
address um, big tech? Um, well, again,
thanks for having me. I'm excited for
this event. I also had not seen the
lineup for this event, the full lineup,
until I walked in this morning. It's a
murderer's row. So, you guys should be
really proud proud of the of the um the
slate you've you've attracted today.
Thanks so much. Um so,
uh my coming to antitrust law, um I'm
going to answer your question, but I'm
going to give a little history first,
please. So, my coming to antitrust law,
uh I took it in law school. Um you learn
the doctrine. Um, for anyone who's been
to law school, you tend to learn the
doctrine and then you learn like the
professor's view of what the right
answer is and then you have to figure
out which one you're supposed to give on
the exam. Um, I did okay, so I figured
it out and then I was just a sort of
like antitrust lawyer in DC law firms.
Um, and you don't really um maybe others
did, but as a like associate trying to
pay off student loans, you don't spend a
lot of time thinking about doctrine,
quad doctrine. You just have a client,
the client has a problem. And so within
the doctrine, you say, "How can I, you
know, fix my client's problems?" Um, and
so I sort of embied the I'll call it the
like corporatist libertarian doctrine of
antitrust or at least that version of it
and said, "Okay, well, you know, I've
got these clients, help them fix their
problems." Um and then uh I went on the
hill and that was the sort of first time
um that I got to think about
antitrust sort of outside of the box of
antitrust like looking at it from above
and saying um thinking about as a policy
as a part of our political economy um
and as a sort of tool to promote market
structures that we want which requires
us to decide what sort of market
structures we want. Um, and then my sort
of baptism by fire, and I think this is
true of a lot of conservatives was 2020.
Um, and you know, I I I was doing some
thinking about uh antitrust before 2020,
but during the sort of George Floyd
uprising, I started getting calls from
companies, huge companies, their their
GCs and the their trade associations.
Uh, and they were calling for police
reform. I would get calls and the calls
were like, "Hey, we think cops are
really racist and we really want you
guys to do something about this." And my
response was, "Why are you calling me
about this?" I thought the deal was
businesses make widgets. Um, government
will generally leave them alone to make
their widgets and then everyone benefits
from this. Why are you weighing in on
this sort of like uniquely political
question? Also, don't you guys want more
police like keeps your stores and
factories safe, etc.
And then the censorship ep epidemic
which had been underway for some time
really really became public and
prominent. Americans, you know, couldn't
voice on social media platforms if they
thought that masks weren't effective. If
they had doubts about um vaccine safety,
if they thought changing election laws
in the middle of the 2020 election was
unfair or a form of cheating, they
couldn't say that either. Um if they
thought that the stuff on Hunter Biden's
laptop was meaningful and ought to be
discussed, you weren't allowed to report
on that either. And that was sort of
when I started to
understand the criticism about corporate
power as a risk, not just about prices
and output, which is sort of what you're
taught in antitrust doctrine, but that
um the wielding of market power is a
threat to individual liberty and it's a
threat to sort of our political and
economic system um in more ways than
just sort of the classic price and
output concerns.
Um and then when I was um solicitor
general of Virginia
um uh I was approached actually by one
of your speakers who was the um pag in
the justice department and said hey like
you know we are contemplating this suit
against Google for its ad tech monopoly
um and you know we we would need
structural relief which in layman's
parliament is breaking up big tech
breaking up Google's monopoly um And you
know I I we did digging and I felt very
like confident about this theory. Um and
then you know was thinking like we've
come sort of a long way where a
Republican governor and AG in Virginia
are contemplating a suit with the
Garland Justice Department to break up
um Google. Um, but that that sort of
like tracks my own development on this
from sort of a like, you know, hoham
pedestrian associate who just like does
what he needs to do for his clients to
get paid, starting to think about
antitrust. Um, and then recognizing big
tech is sort of a serious and the market
power it wields is a pretty serious
threat to our market structures, to
individual liberty. Um, and um, the
Google suit is very interesting because
um, it's pretty ordinary. All of the
theories in the Google ad tech suit are
pretty straightforward, just tying
illegal acquisitions. No, no sort of
like pie in the sky theory. These were
theories that had been lying around for
a long time and people just didn't want
to bring the suit. And the reason people
weren't bringing the suit had mostly to
do with sort of political choices. And I
don't mean like Democrat versus
Republican political choices, but I mean
choices that enforcers make about when
it's a good time to pull the trigger.
Um, even if they think there's a viable
suit, there was for a long time a
preference um against intervening in big
tech. And it was driven by a couple
things. I think it was driven in part by
a view that, you know, we ought to be
very differential to seuite decisions
because seuite decisions are being made
by free people in a free market. Um
there was a sort of a ideological view
that intervention is probably almost
always worse than monopoly. Um and it's
sort of a kind of libertarian political
view about the relationship of
government to to the economy. Um, and
then, and I think frankly this was
especially true in the 2010s, there was
a uh, there's a great Tablet magazine
article about this, but there was a like
real relationship between sort of the
Obama Democrat party and big tech. And
big tech was like basically incorporated
into the way Democrats hope to govern
the country. And so leaving big tech
alone was like a necessary ingredient to
their the plan for government. In 2013,
he actually explicitly said, "We're not
going to bring any enforcement."
Exactly. and they didn't. And that's
sort of when the um ad tech and search
monopolies that Google had started to
grow. Is it fair to say that was a major
mistake in 2013? I mean, I I obviously
think that that was a mistake. Um and
look, like, you know, I this is like an
interesting conundrum for enforcers that
take big tech seriously. We've got two
things that we're trying to thread a
needle between two sort of opposing
problems. The first is we don't, and I
think this is especially true for little
tech, we don't want an ideological
predisposition against M&A activity
because M&A is part of how little tech
companies can really realize their
value. And if people invest in little
tech companies and think they can't get
their money back out, they just won't
invest. People will have their money
locked up in little tech companies. So,
we can't have an ideological
predisposition against M&A. It is part
of how we innovate because that's what
helps unlock capital. We very much
agree. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know you
do. But on the other hand, we don't want
to have an ideological predisposition
that's sort of just like government
should not intervene. The risk of
monopoly is not that bad. And then we
wind up in the situation where we have
meta Instagram where you have a single
purchase and you know the FTC is going
to trial in a couple weeks in the Meta
Instagram um matter um you know uh or
the goo Google adtech which involves
some acquisitions although that was
mostly about tying but we we we both
don't want to lock people's investment
and dry up capital to our innovators we
also don't want to say like well then we
need sort of you know o open season in
M&A everything goes because we want to
make sure the capital's flowing and I
think you know um someone asked me at
another conference or maybe was an
interview whether what I was proposing
was MAGA antitrust and I guess that it
sort of is my view is I I don't want
antitrust wedded to either polls which
is categorical hardcore opposition to
M&A activity which hurts innovation and
but I don't want to replace that with
like monopoly concerns are overstated.
Government should rarely rarely
intervene. I want vigorous antitrust
enforcement because it's good for the
economy because I think monopoly can be
as dangerous in many ways as big
government. Um uh and you know I I I'm
sensitive to the argument that you know
big government is bad. I'm a Republican.
Like I've embied that for a long time. I
don't want to replace big government
with big monopoly. I don't like either
of them. And I don't think any of us
should have to live under either of
them. And both of them can obstruct
individual liberty in very similar ways.
Government is obviously slightly
different because they can send men to
kick in your door with guns in a way
that you know large companies cannot.
But if a company can drive you out of
the public square on social media, if
they can drive you out of employment,
um, or if they can make sure that your
idea that could be groundbreaking,
life-changing for tens of millions of
Americans or maybe the whole world will
never see the light of day because it's
potential competitive threat to their
monopoly. They can really constrict all
of our individual liberty in ways that
should terrify us almost to the same
extent as government. And so that's what
I'm after is an antitrust policy that
recognizes the that you know M&A is part
of unlocking innovation, achieving
President Trump's golden age, but does
not say therefore we needed M&A all the
time that takes antitrust enforcement
seriously as one of the ways we prevent
replacing big government with big
monopoly.
Um, one of the earlier presenters showed
this um, hilarious thing talking about
chatt rappers, but the rappers are
actually rappers on LLMs, which are then
rappers on Nvidia chips, which are then
rappers on ASML. I mean, these are
technological platforms. Uh, and then
one of the more egregious things that
we've talked a lot about with about, you
know, Apple and Google, but that's
they're not the only ones. you know in
the healthc care space you know epic
health is sort of known to do a decent
amount of self-preferencing I mean how
do we ensure that there are open markets
and open platforms um and you know how
do you uh from the FTC point of view
view self-preferencing yeah um good
question so
um this I think we all should be really
concerned as market participants
wherever we are in the markets about the
idea a that a company could build
basically a walled platform where they
invite you in. Once you're in, it's very
hard to leave and then in order to build
things within the walled garden, they
either extract attacks or they prevent
you from doing it by steering everyone
else in the walled garden to their
thing. Um, I mean I, you know,
I we're gonna have sort of an innovative
stagnation problem if we have these
platforms that were super innovative for
a long time but have ceased to be
innovative and instead sort of keep
themselves afloat by taxing innovators
or making sure that their potentially
competitive products never present a
real challenge. Um, my view about the
best way to do this is antitrust
enforcement. um and rather than Xanti
regulation um uh in part because we
remain by far the most dynamic, most
vibrant, most innovative economy on on
Earth. And I think part of the reason
that has been is that we have prized
antitrust enforcement over heavy-handed
um regulation. Um Gail Slater, my um
colleague at the Justice Department, who
I think is probably the brightest mind
in Republican antitrust right now, said
at her confirmation hearing, "Vigorous
antitrust enforcement is the way we
avoid
exantiulation." Um and so I watched the
the epic um Google and Epic Apple cases
with great interest and and you know, I
I think that these are like viable
theories. Part of the problem that they
that the you know courts are are
wrapping with is that you know there's a
there's been a view among some of the
judiciary um that because you know um
Apple's operating system and Google's
operating system are competitive early
on in the sort of like transaction
chain. Um they remain competitive even
once you're bought into the system. I
have my own doubts about that as like a
factual matter. I mean, I my the first
um smartphone I ever purchased was an
Apple in like 2012, and I've never
gotten out of the um ecosystem. Um and
so I think sort of as I think for a lot
of Americans, if they hear once you've
bought into it that Samsung and Google
or Samsung or Apple and and Google
continue to compete, they would probably
um raise an eyebrow a bit. Um and so I,
you know, I I think these theories have
a lot of force. Um, but I think that's
the way to do it is is, you know,
confront these with our antitrust laws.
Now, if it turns out the antitrust laws
as currently written are insufficient to
protect innovation, because that's the
thing that we're actually after here is
um, you know, the the cautionary tale
here is is Europe, which is a an economy
full of like great people, but they
they're not growing. They're not
innovating at a, you know, at a high
speed. Certainly not at our rate. and
we're trying to keep that sort of
pioneering innovative American spirit
alive. And if the antitrust laws are not
doing enough to promote innovation on
these platforms, I do think it's
appropriate for Congress to consider um
alternatives. Um but I think we have to
start by exhausting all of the available
antitrust tools like Epic did in Epic
Google. And obviously we'll see how it
turns out on appeal, but um I think that
that theory shows great promise.
Um, speaking of Europe, uh, Europe's
Digital Markets Act has been hailed by
startup founders as an exciting tool to
curb the most egregious forms of
self-deing uh, by companies like Apple
and Google. Um, founders are already
having conversations with uh, the DMA
team about how um, their smart wearable
technology might be able to interact
with Apple devices um, with new
interoperability rules that the DMA
hopes to unlock. Would the US benefit
from a law similar to DMA that
specifically prohibited some of the
abuses we're seeing from Apple and
Google so startup founders don't have to
wait for the government to bring
successful prosecution against these
firms? Um so the answer is I don't know
maybe
um Congress has got IKOA has been in
play open app markets has been in play.
I don't want to sort of take a position
on that while Congress is is trying to
work this out. um you know as an
enforcer of the current antitrust laws
my view are let's see what can be done
with the current ones if Congress thinks
it's not enough great like you know if
they want to um provide additional
theories I think that's great and I do
think that the the goal always needs to
be pro promote and protect innovation
um and I think that you know that's been
one of the like hallmarks of the Trump
administration and I think the
deregulatory spirit um and ensuring that
no monopoly can suppress press
innovation are coming from like the
exact same place that the desire to
unlock innovation by deregulating making
sure government is no larger than
necessary to carry out the vital
services is the exact same impulse as
the one that says we shouldn't let
monopolies suppress innovation in order
to protect their monopoly rents on on
the the DMA itself um you know my own
view as a as an American is um I'm very
suspicious of laws that appear to have
been written to get at American
companies abroad you know one of the
features of the DMA that concerns me the
most is that um well there there are
there are a couple. Um so again I share
your concerns and the concerns of your
founders with platforms using their
walled garden to suppress innovation.
It's a real problem. I think it is
probably one of the biggest threats to
innovation confronting the American
economic landscape today. Um but I am
really wary about Brussels bureaucrats
being given the power basically to level
fines. You know, in America, if I think
someone has committed an antitrust
violation, I have to prove it in court.
In the DMA, it's the reverse. The the
the bureaucrats say, "Pay the fine. You
can sue us to try to stop us. The fine
will continue acrewing in the interim."
Um, so it can make very challenging it
very costly. Um, so, you know, concerned
about the due process issues. I I also,
you know, if the goal of the DMA is to
sort of unlock innovation in Europe, we
don't have a DMA equivalent here and
we're innovating. And so I've got my
doubts about whether this is, you know,
really about that. And the fact that the
fines under the DMA are not tied to the
business being conducted by the firm in
Europe. It's worldwide revenue. It
starts to look like the DMA is sort of
like a form of taxing American
companies. And my own view is, you know,
if if we think that Americans are
suffering from anti-competitive conduct
at home, we should address it here at
home. I don't I don't want the Europeans
doing it for us. number one. And number
two, I definitely don't want the
Europeans basically levying taxes on
American firms, no matter what the
conduct is. I think, you know, it ought
to be up to us sort of discipline the
conduct of the of the firm. So, I have
real concerns about the way that the DMA
is structured, the fact that only one
European company even qualifies for
gatekeeper status under the DMA. Um, but
as I said earlier, you know, I I think
that Epic's suit against Google has real
promise and um, the concerns Epic has
raised in the Google suit, I think are
real antitrust concerns that have to be
addressed.
Um, the FTC was in the news a couple of
weeks ago because President Trump fired
Democratic commissioners Alvo Bedoya and
uh, Becca Slaughter. This is a break
with almost a hundred years of precedent
where the FTC is supposed to operate
independently from the White House. Uh
I'm not concerned about whether that's,
you know, true or not or arguing whether
it's good or bad. Um I am curious. Do
you think the absence of minority party
commissioners at the commission will
change how founders interface with the
FTC? I don't think so. Um my view about
the FTC's mission is entirely unchanged.
For what it's worth, I know that you're
not arguing with it, but I think it's
important to say. Um my view is that um
the president unequivocally had the
authority to remove them after CELA law
in 2020. I I think it's it's plain as
day. I know that there's litigation on
this and um the courts will resolve
this, but I I'm firmly of the of the
view that he had the authority and
that independent agencies is not good
for a democracy. All all powerful
executive branch officials should be
accountable to the people whom we on
whose behalf we are governing and the
only person in the executive branch that
gets elected is the president which
means accountability runs through the
president. So I think that ensuring that
there isn't freestanding elements of the
federal government independent from all
accountability is super important for a
democracy. That said, um I don't think
it's will change the way founders
interact with the FTC. My job the day
before the removals is the same as it is
today, which is vigorously enforce the
antitrust laws um and protect American
consumers from high prices, low output,
deprived innovation, low quality choice,
the abs or low product quality in the
absence of of of product choice. Uh and
that is no less true now than it was
before. So, you know, the FTC is going
on. Um, you
know, the day itself was, you know, it
was a day, but the FTC is already sort
of back on its mission. Um, and the
mission is unchanged. Um, and so I don't
think anyone here should think that this
will change, um, you know, anything
about how they interact with the FTC. My
desire to vigorously enforce the ant
laws is no different now than it was
then. Um, we'll have a third
commissioner here pretty soon. I see him
in the audience. Um, and I I don't think
it will change when when he gets there
either. You know, it's full steam ahead
um on enforcing the antitrust laws and
protecting American consumers um uh from
monopoly and from fraud. So, uh I'm so
excited that you're here today and uh to
hear your words. I I am rem absolutely
astonished at how cool it is to bring
together such a different set of uh you
know builders, legislators, regulators.
Um I think it's you know too rare and so
I have to I have to take the opportunity
and ask I mean um chairman Ferguson are
there things that you would want to say
to an audience full of builders. So, you
know, there are a number of people who
are presenting here today and they're in
the audience in this physical room, but
there are more than 10,000 people
watching uh online, many of whom are uh
builders scattered throughout uh our our
beautiful country of the United States
of America. Um what what do you have to
say to them? Um two things. The first is
that um you all are a huge part of what
makes America great. Um uh it it um it's
ABA spring meeting. Um I am not
attending any of the events. Um FTC
political appointees are also not
attending any of the events. Um but it
has brought together a lot of foreign
enforcers and so I've had you know
bilateral meetings with with foreign
enforcers. Um and one of the things that
I've been saying is you know trying to
understand why America innovates and
grows the way it does but Europe does
not. And there are all sorts I think
there you know it it's probably
overdetermined. There are all sorts of
reasons but um the one that I keep
settling on is that um America was built
on this like pioneering spirit and a
willingness to take real risks. Um and
that failure is not fatal and if you
fail you pick yourself back up and you
try something else. Um and the builders
are like the 21st century embodiment of
the pioneers. They they want to try
something that hasn't been tried before.
They're willing to take a gamble on it.
They're willing to stake, you know, sort
of a personal claim on it. That is part
of what makes America so great. And that
spirit is so rare anywhere else in the
world. And I think it's super important
that government do everything it can to
keep that spirit kindled. And that means
making sure that government is not too
big and making sure that monopolies do
not pour water on that spirit. So, um,
you guys are part of what is making
America the great place that it is.
Number one. Number two, from our offices
in Washington, we see a lot of what's
going on in the um in the economy and in
our markets, but not everything. Um, and
there are all sorts of things that
happen that I just can't sort of see um
from the chairman's desk. I think it's
really important that builders feel like
they can come to the FTC if they think
that there are monopoly problems,
anti-competitive conduct, conduct that's
otherwise injuring consumers. Um, you
shouldn't assume that we're just sort of
magically aware of it. The fact that
it's happening to you doesn't mean we
know it's happening. Um, and you should
feel free to come to the FTC and say,
"Hey, look, like we're trying to do this
thing. We're trying to build this thing.
We're trying to bring this idea to the
four and there are problems and we feel
like they're competitive problems and we
don't know if anyone's doing anything
about it. Um, and look, like it might be
that for resource reasons or the state
of the law or whatever, there won't be
something that can be done immediately
about it, but we don't know everything
happening in our markets all the time.
And the way we find out is people tell
us. You know, we have this massive
system for filing consumer complaints.
Um, and it drives a huge proportion of
our work and it's awesome and it's one
of the best tools the FTC has. But
another one is the sort of informal
ability of people to come to the FTC and
say, "Hey, there's this problem. Are you
aware?" And often I'll go, "No, I had no
idea." Um, so builders should feel free
to come to us and say, "Hey, we think
there's a problem out there, a systemic
problem or a problem that's aimed sort
of at like people like us. Can you
help?" We might not be able to, but it's
at least good to know it's out there.
Chairman Ferguson, everyone, thank you
so
much. Thanks for joining us.