Title: Fireside with Abigail Slater, Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division, US DOJ
Video ID: Hk6A1WcJtPs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hk6A1WcJtPs
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-28T21:45:16Z
Duration: PT24M58S
Views: 990
Likes: 8
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 603

Description:
Interviewed by Rachel Bovard, VP of Conservative Partnership Institute.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Well, good afternoon everyone and
welcome Gail. Congratulations. Thank
you. Uh, I want to start kind of as a
table setting moment. You know, you've
been in Washington a long time. A lot of
us got to know you back in 2012 when you
were working at the FTC as an attorney
adviser to uh, Commissioner Julie Bril.
And if we remember that moment, it was
one in which the FTC in a lot of our
minds whiffed on being able to
investigate Google. Um, and now nearly a
decade, over a decade later, you just
got 78 votes in the Senate. What's
changed?
Gosh. Um, events, dear. Events happened.
Isn't that what they say in situations
like this? Um, so, so back in 2012, I
think there were a couple of things
going on. um these are you newer more
nent markets back then and people didn't
really understand them the way that many
people do today um I'd also add that um
that applied to the agency right as well
as the outside world more broadly um and
also in 2012 you know the definition of
like market power is can you control
prices for an extended period period of
time and the thinking around tech
platforms at that time was you you know,
competition's just a click away. Um,
entry barriers are low. There's always
some cool new technology being cooked up
in a garage somewhere and that
technology will leap, frog, whatever
exists today. And that was very much the
mindset at the antitrust agencies and I
know and I was because I was there and
then fast forward to thank you very much
for reminding me that I got 78 votes in
the Senate.
Sweated over everyone. I'm sure my
deputies are starting to tease me about
this because I say it way too much, but
I'll get over it. I will get over it. I
just have to repeat it every day right
now. Um, so fast forward to today and
we're seeing this like really
interesting um awakening um on the left
but also importantly on the right around
um technology platforms but also like
concentration throughout the economy in
general. And so um you know I go look at
my Senate hearing and you know there
were there were a lot of tough questions
from the right about the levels of
concentration throughout the economy.
Josh Holly hopefully turned up with some
charts where he like de demonstrated
that and we had a colloqu around it. Um
and so it's a it's not a bipartisan
issue and there's a consensus around the
need for um robust antitrust
enforcement. Um and and that's obviously
like backed up by the president's
announcement when he nominated me in
December last year. Um you know, he did
call out big tech, but he also called
for robust and I trust enforcement with
clear rules of the road. And so like
that's where we are in 2025.
So if we can dig into that a little bit
and we heard uh Chairman Ferguson
reference this phrase MAGA antitrust. So
what is that in your mind? How are you
thinking about that? Excuse me. Um, so,
um, we can call it MAGA antitrust, we
could call it America first antitrust. I
also am quite partial to Hillbilly
Antitrust. I may have to try and work
that more into the mainstream. Um, JD
Vance's next book. There you go. Um so
um look it's about
um putting um American citizens as
consumers as workers we can define it
how we want giving them a seat at the
table alongside other important um
stakeholders in the antitrust enterprise
you know obviously we have practitioners
we have companies um they they need
legal certainty but you know we in the
America first movement are about giving
American citizens a seat at the table in
on any number of policy issues. I mean
right now the the hot button issue is
trade. Um, and you know, I just came
from another event up the street and I
reminded folks that, um, you know, quite
recently, um, we had a Treasury
Secretary who took to cable news, I
think it was one of the Sunday shows,
and he was asked about, you know,
tariffs and where he stood on tariff
policy, and he kind of made the same
point I just made around the need to
give Americans a seat at the table with
regards to economic policy. and he said
something like we can do better than let
them eat flat screen TVs. And so that's
that's that's where we're coming from
too.
So we're obviously here at the little
tech conference and I'm hoping you can
speak a little bit to you know how are
you different from the previous
administration um when it comes to
enforcement and how does that what does
that mean specifically for startups?
Okay. So, um, we've, uh, we've already
talked about there's a through line from
the first Trump term through the Biden
administration. Many of the cases are
we're carrying forward where
investigations open in the in the first
Trump term.
Um, so we're we're standing behind the
robust antitrust enforcement that's been
in place for, you know, eight years. Um,
but there are some differences. is I
mean one thing I flag for an example for
startups in the room if you're
interested in this is um I'm more open
to consent degrees and merger cases um
and I went into that in some detail at
the hearing. Um Jonathan Caner was not a
proponent of that. Um but I also at the
other event I just came from said to use
very technical language that only
antitrust lawyers will understand. Um
I'm not that doesn't mean we're in the
business of accepting what I call
 consent decrees. Um and so
that's that's that's an important um
difference I think from the the previous
administration. I think that's a very
important technical term. It is. Yes.
 consent decrees.
Um, you know, there's a lot of
discussion now, particularly in the big
tech space, about the importance of
national champions and how important
they are to national security and as be
because of that, uh, they should receive
certain treatment from the from the
federal government. How do you think
about that as an antitrust enforcer? Uh,
thank you for the question. This is this
is really important because it's
something that we're seeing popping up
in many different contexts but also in
the antitrust realm. Um so to to steal
man what some technology companies are
saying um you know it's we've got these
global technological races against
certain adversaries. So when I was at
the White House I did a lot of work
around 5G deployment right so that's one
technology race. The current technology
race is AI right? And so we're hearing
certain platform companies, but you
know, tech tech companies beyond the
platform companies talk about the ways
in which they need the United States
government to
um support them because they are de
facto quasi national champions. And so
China has national champions. We need
national champions. And that comes into
the antitrust space as a sort of like a
a defense. It's not it's not a defense
known to the antitrust laws, but it's an
argument and a defense being made. Um,
and so, you know, the argument is we're
really really important to national
security. Therefore, you should not be
applying the antitrust laws to to us at
this moment in time. And you kind of
push it out to its logical extension.
It's almost like an argument for a a de
facto exemption from the antitrust laws,
which as anybody in the room who's
worked in Congress will know is like
really really hard to get. Um, but
they're kind of asking for it from the
antitrust agencies. So that's their
steel man. And then how I think about it
is um, you know, we're we're we're free
market Republicans. Like we it we want
free markets to thrive. And a very
important component in that is healthy
competition, right? We we we don't want
an economy of monopolies and igopies,
right? We want startups to thrive, to be
able to enter these markets to compete
with bigger companies. And antitrust is
a really important backs stop on that
that whole construct, right, which is as
American as apple pie. And so we're here
to we're here to say I'm here to say
that um antitrust import enforcement is
is is really important to keeping our
markets free and open and competitive.
Um and we have historic precedent that
we can do both things. We can both
defend our national security and we can
enforce the antitrust laws. And so
during the second world war we c we we
continued enforcing the antitrust laws.
Um, and we had, you know, considerable
foes then. Um, another example that I've
learned from the antitrust division is
the case of AT&T in the 1980s. AT&T made
an argument that if they were broken up,
um, that that would undermine national
security um because we needed them AT&T
to to stay as as a monopoly um to fight
the Cold War effectively. The Justice
Department moved forward. They broke up
AT&T. And then guess what happened? A
lot of innovation was unleashed. A lot
of competition was unleashed. We got the
wireless industry from that breakup,
right? We won that technological race
because of the breakup, some might say.
Um the first the first internet modem
was released from Mel. it had been sort
of under wraps for a long time because
AT&T did not have the incentives to
release the modem onto the market
because they knew it would undermine
their their franchise. So, so that's
that that's what I'm here to to say
about that argument as an antitrust
enforcer.
One of the entry points for the right in
this de antitrust enforcement
conversation has been the issue of
speech. Um, it's I think it's what woke
a lot of the write up to looking at
competition policy and in particular it
wasn't just the throttling of speech
that people saw at a mass scale, but
also how competitors to those tech plat
platforms suffered under what was
perceived to be an ideological agenda.
I'm thinking of the case of Parlor in
particular. So when it we look at speech
and and from where you sit as an
enforcer, how do you view the two? Is
there a role for competition policy when
it comes to addressing speech issues?
So, I'm three weeks into the job. Okay,
with that caveat, um I was asked about
this at the hearing, too, also not
surprisingly, by conservative senators.
Um and it's something that has not
really been talked about much over the
past four, five years, let's say.
Um the it's it's an animating concern,
however, for many many Republican
senators, particularly those on the
judiciary committee who who think about
these things. Um and so Ted Cruz asked
me about this, Senator Lee asked me
about this, Josh Holly on down the DES.
It's clearly a concern for them. Um the
answer I gave to Ted Cruz was without
having like a file open in front of me,
without having an investigative team
around me is you know as a theoretical
matter when you
have a news story in circulation that is
not politically popular. uh and you have
one platform that circulates 50% of news
stories or 50% of Americans obtain their
news from. It's not that hard to make
that story disappear from the internet.
I mean, it's sort of a obvious statement
to make. I think it shocks some people
that I said that um but you know, think
about it. Um you know, we have large
platforms.
um they have disappeared stories and I
can see where those senators are coming
from. I'll just leave it at that.
Um some uh VCs and founders have
expressed concern that the previous
administration's approach to enforcement
limited M&A opportunities and you saw
chairman Ferguson I think comment on
this a little bit. Yeah. Um how will
your approach to merger review balance
competitive concerns and the innovative
economy? Okay, so I'll echo what he
said. um you know, we are here to do
tough law enforcement when it's
appropriate. If it's not, we're going to
get out of the way. And I think the
other distinction that I drew is we're
we're also going to be open to to robust
consent decrees. Again, not here for the
 consent decrees. Um and so
those are the ways in which I'm thinking
about um deals coming in the door.
I want to go back to this idea of MAGA
antitrust and what it could mean.
There's been a lot of discussion of the
role, you know, economic analysis plays
in enforcement versus um, you know, the
sort of legal enforcement review. Um, a
lot of this dealing with Matt Stler's
least favorite people in the world and
that's economists. Um so how how do you
think about um that balance because on
the right you know we tend to appreciate
more economic review what the economists
have to say versus you know I think a
little bit more of the enforcement heavy
side. How how are you viewing that?
Yeah. So I um I'm I'm supportive of
bringing economists in and and giving
them a seat at the table in cases. Um,
we're going to have a deputy for
economics, which was a crowd-pleaser
with our in-house economist. Um, he'll
be starting in a month or so. He's
already been announced. Uh, someone I
worked with at the Federal Trade
Commission years ago. Um, he's a very
seasoned PhD economist and a
practitioner. Um, I will also add he's
very pro- enforcement when appropriate.
Um, not all PhD economists are and so
they're, you know, they're quite
involved in our investigations. Um and
um even if we didn't want to include
economists in the analysis um you know
there is an expectation if we go to
court the other side will have an
economist. They'll have a testifying
expert we are expected to have a
testifying expert. That's just kind of
how it works. If only because they serve
to cancel one another out and then the
judge goes and defaults to the documents
and the legal arguments being made and
can craft an opinion around that. Um, so
that's that's how I see the role of
economists. I will say um I'm not kind
of here for economists who are
ideologically opposed to antitrust
enforcement and that was part of the the
personnel pick that we made. Um those
those economists do exist. They exist at
the agencies as well as in the outside
world. And you know the phrase that I
like to rely on there is the the absence
of evidence is not evidence of absence.
And sometimes economists tend to
overindex on the former to say there's
no case there nothing to see. Move
along. Big is beautiful.
Um, you know, when we're looking at some
of the the innovators and the founders
here in the audience
today, how should the smaller tech
companies approach DOJ if they feel like
they're experiencing anti-competitive
conduct from dominant players in their
marketplace? Do you have practical
advice for, you know, little tech that
may not have the resources that the big
companies do to try and maintain a level
playing field? Do you have any advice
for them? Um, well, you have quite the
convening platform here. here. I mean,
congratulations. And I should have
started with that to to Y Combinator for
bringing everybody into the room. Um,
I'm also told there were 35,000 people
live streaming this event. Hello
everyone.
I had no idea. So interesting. I told
Luther not to tell us that. Oh, okay.
So, um, you know, please assume that I
am very very interested in your
viewpoint. I am a firm believer in
competitive markets. I'm a firm believer
in antitrust enforcement to keep those
markets open and competitive um so that
you all can succeed. You all to me are
the future of the economy. You're the
future of innovation. Um and so we're
you know I'm here. I'm here for you. Um
there are other ways you can navigate
DC. You don't have to go straight to the
top. um you do have allies here um on
the right and the left and increasing
number on the right and that's been an
interesting development that Rachel and
I have seen over the past several years.
Um so that would be my advice.
So to the extent that you can answer
this question, you know, we've been
talking about the tech space, but
there's obviously a lot more in the
competitive landscape. Concentration in
the is across the economy. Um we've
heard references to it in the health
sector. you know we you're hearing I
think brought up some in the a sector
how are you looking at it generally to
the extent that you can talk about it
outside of the tech space okay so this
goes back to definitionally what does
American America first antitrust mean um
so it's you know consumers are not just
limited to one sector of the economy
it's across the board and so we're very
interested in um cost of living it's
really important the one um executive
border. I think it's actually a
presidential memorandum that we're
directly responding to is a memorandum
that came out about the cost of living.
And so we're, you know, assume we're
looking at consumerf facing markets.
That's really important piece of it. Um
and then, you know, we are going to
be open to um you know, outside council.
Um you know, please come visit with us.
Um tell us about what you're seeing. We
don't assume to have perfect knowledge
about what's going on in markets. Um but
consumerf facing is going to be really
important and being a piece of bringing
down the cost of living. It's um it's
not it's not solely our charge.
Obviously there are other levers across
the government that can be pulled but
antitrust and competition are really
important to that.
Um so this might be a tricky question
for you but um at when this conference
opened the first session um Brody
Mullins asked your predecessor Jonathan
Caner you know what what were what was a
mistake that you made I'm going to ask
you what is one thing that the B
administration did well in this space
that you would want to repeat? Um I
think they brought um immense political
will to um challenging some old
assumptions about antitrust. The sort of
like big big biggest way of thinking and
mode of thinking about antitrust and I
think that was a really important
conversation. Um, I will say so, you
know, some of that did start under the
Trump 45 administration, but they
carried through on that and um, you
know, I think they've built interesting
coalitions. We're here today. So,
do you still think that there is a place
for bipartisan cooperation in this
space? I would say yes given that you
have 70 78 votes, but how do you
shepherd that forward? Yeah. Um well,
you know, we can start by being
responsive to the Hill. Um we can, you
know, be working in broader coalitions
that exist that have grown up in the
past five years. Um and be responsive to
arguments from the right and the left.
Um assuming they're coming from like a a
good-hearted place and and a lot of
those people know where to find me.
They're already finding me.
I'm sure they are. They are. Yeah. Uh,
as as we wrap up, I I want you to
address one other question that's been a
totem of the right for a lot a long time
on the on the antitrust enforcement
side, and that is the consumer welfare
standard. You know, there's people that
want to dump it over the edge. There's
people that want to keep it, but how do
you think about it as a longtime uh
yeah, enforcer, but also practitioner in
the antitrust space? So, I mean, it's
the law. It's been gradually baked into
precedent since the late 1970s. Um what
I've said um just coming from the
previous event is as a practitioner um
the consumer welfare standard is it's
decently broad. I mean the variables
including you know quality price as a
dimension of competition output
innovation things of that nature. um as
a matter of agency practice often it's
been narrowed down to price because
that's which that is what can be
measured that can be put into an
econometric model and that has become
often the game in agency
practice the other side has a
econometric model the agency produces
one or it kicks the tires on the other
side's a model um and so um the narrow
narrow focus on price I think is
something that is doesn't is not even
compatible with the consumer welfare
construct as it exists in current
precedent and I think we need to be open
particularly in certain markets to think
about it more broadly than just price.
Last question for you. What was your
favorite part of Senate confirmation? Oh
gosh. Gosh, please be forthcoming. The
vote the vote.
No, no, I'm I'm going to use this. Thank
you for the question, Senator. No, I'm
going to use this to give um I'm gonna
use this to give Senator Grassley a
shout out. Senator Grassley was like a a
prairie populist when it came to
antitrust long long before a lot of
other people
were sector. He's a very dear man. He's
a gracious man. Uh people give him a
hard time because of his age, but boy
did he help me um navigate that process.
and um he um and then then and then
before the vote took to the floor um to
deliver floor remarks in support of my
nomination, which I had not I didn't
even know about. I didn't even know
about. And so we we we connected um and
um he I know he likes me because he
calls me
Slater and and apparently according to
his staff, that's what he does with
people that he he likes. And so I
learned a lot from him. I was I was
greatly helped by his staff and I I
really did appreciate the care that they
take behind the scenes which you well
know Rachel is the hardest part of the
job because you've just sharpened four
four HHS nominees through confirmation.
So yeah, that's quite the lift. Yes. My
husband told me never to volunteer for
anything again. No. No. So here we are.
Um, anything you want to any parting
words for your um several thousand new
best friends? Oh,
[Laughter]
yeah. I I Are they all my new best
friends? I don't know.
Um, so, so just I mean to summarize,
we've said a lot of this already, but
look, we're here for, um, giving an
American citizens a seat at the table
when it comes to antitrust. Um, we are
here for robust antitrust enforcement.
I'm not a regulator. I'm a law enforcer.
And we see antitrust enforcement as a
key back stop on free markets. So,
that's where we're coming from as
Republicans. Um, and I also think what
I've just said taps into a tradition.
Um, John Sherman of the Sherman Act was
a Republican from Ohio. Um, and when he
took to the floor of the Senate in
support of his legislation in 1890, he
made a really important point, which is,
um, the country was founded, um, by a
somewhat anti- monopoly movement. I
mean, the Boston Tea Party was a was an
act against a monopoly. The East India
Tea Company, God bless them. Um, this is
um this is this is this is part of a
longer tradition. We are part of a
longer tradition. And John Sherman said
at the time in 1890, um, you having
reminded his fellow senators of that
founding act, um, if we wouldn't stand
for a king in our politics, which we
didn't, um, we shouldn't stand for it in
commerce and trade and the necessities
of life. And so that that's where we're
coming from. All right. Yep. Well, thank
you, Gail. All right.