Video ID: hpEXEtycm1Y
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hpEXEtycm1Y
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1275
============================================================

Today we're joined by Yorn Van Djk, the
CEO and co-founder of Framer, the
leading website design platform. Yorn
has spent the past decade pushing the
boundaries of interactive [music]
design, and today we'll dig into his
founder story and hear his advice for
how to [music] adapt in an AI world.
Welcome to another episode of Design
Review.
>> Welcome, Yorn.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me.
>> Yeah, thanks so much for joining. Maybe
you could start out by telling us what
is Framer and give us the current state
of the company.
>> For sure. So, Framer is a web design
platform used by professional designers
and startups to build their entire.com.
We just raised D over the summer um at a
$2 billion valuation and we're roughly
120 people across Europe and about a
third in the US. You know, one of the
things that I think we have in common is
we both share a mission to encourage
more designers to become founders and
and that was certainly the path that you
took. I'm curious, what do you think it
was about your design background that
set you up well to become a founder and
start this company?
>> My background is in traditional graphic
design. So, I went to uh design school
for about four years and then I went to
art academy after that. The Netherlands
is pretty rich culture of both graphic
design and art academy. Uh so a lot of
typography uh poster design is coming
out of the Netherlands and um especially
after art academy I was a little I was
looking for what to how to apply my
skills. I was really drawn to to
honestly the Macintosh at the time and
sort of like iconography and the type of
software that was built on that and
that's really what got me interested in
making software and products in the
first place.
>> Amazing. It it seems like growing up in
the Netherlands there's like a rich
culture of design and caring about high
quality products and things like that.
Where does that come from?
>> Yes, it's true. Uh we do have a rich
history of that. I think especially um
for graphic design and typography. There
was a a phase in the let's say um 70s
and up where uh the government actually
used a lot of subsidies to uh sponsor
graphic design for things like the
postal office, the navy, things like
that. They all had pretty
forwardthinking design solutions and a
lot of sort of like design systems
thinking was applied back then to those
projects and uh and so yeah it's it's
like one part of of what made the
Netherlands sort of like uh breeding
ground for for graphic design.
>> At what point did you realize that
design could maybe become a career? Was
it always a career path that you had in
mind or was it something that you sort
of stumbled into?
>> A little bit of both. So I think I mean
we're 20 years ago the when when I got
into design um and and I think you know
just getting exposure to the Macintosh
as a platform and the products that were
being built on it was a big part but
honestly for me it was like I was just
drawn to the aesthetics of all of that
all of those uh products uh first and
foremost and really wanted to figure out
how do I also make stuff like that like
I couldn't really from school and there
wasn't really any tutorials bills
online. There's like probably no YouTube
20 years ago. And so it was really kind
of hard to figure out, okay, how do you
how does the Aqua interface of 20 years
ago, how's that how's that made? Like
what what tool was used to do that? And
the answer was Photoshop.
>> Uh everything was Photoshop 20 years
ago.
>> But that sort of like curio curiosity
kind of set me up to discover more of
okay, there's software and that's being
built by developers and some care for
how it looks and others don't. Um, some
are obsessed with the user experience
and and others don't. And I kind of
found that field very very interesting.
>> And I know one of the early big steps in
your career was uh joining Sofa. Tell us
more about what was Sofa and how did you
get involved there?
>> For sure. Um, so when I graduated from
Art Academy, it was really just looking
for kind of like-minded people. Um,
because there wasn't a ton of that going
on all the way back then. There wasn't a
startup culture. um there wasn't any VC
funding was unheard like just didn't
exist. So it was mostly trying to find
people close to me that had a similar
interest in in in software and building
software and in exploring what you could
achieve with uh with interface design.
And so that's how I discovered um Sofa.
They kind of like uh my co-ound my now
co-founder started that company
just four months before I discovered uh
uh heard about them. and um I was their
first employee and we kind of like built
it out built it out from there.
>> Say more about what you were doing and
some of the clients that you were
working with uh with Sofa.
>> So our ambition with Sofa really was to
build our own software and so we built a
couple of products. Um one was called
Checkout and then the other one it's
called versions and then the last one
that we built was called Kaleidoscope.
Um and so one was kind of checkout was
uh point of sale system and then
versions and kaleidoscope were developer
tools. uh versions was a sub subversion
client, so kind of predecessor to to git
and kaleidoscope was a way to uh view
the differences in in files could be
code files or uh images. Building those
products out, we realized like well it's
going to be pretty hard to build a
product and then immediately make money.
And so what ended up happening was that
we built those products and they kind of
served almost as a as an ad to other
companies that looked at those products
and said, "Well, that looks good.
>> I want my my software to look like
that."
>> Did you have a lot of people using those
products?
>> I think with all three products, we kind
of had um early adoption uh versions was
the one that was the most successful um
because it was a developer solution. But
Checkout, yeah, we were um uh the Apple
store in in Amsterdam ran on Checkout
and so we had a couple of those uh sort
of geek customers early on and over the
six years that we ran Sofa, I think in
the third or the fourth year, we became
profitable with the software. And so in
the first four years, we were doing a
lot of agency work next to it um to fund
us getting good enough with or making
enough money with the software. And so
some of the clients that we worked for
uh were TomTom in the Netherlands and
Mosilla in the US.
>> And then a surprising thing happened
which is uh Facebook reached out to you.
>> Yeah. Well
>> as a design agency and you know you kind
of had these products that were very
unrelated to Facebook like how did that
come about and tell us the story of what
happened there.
>> For sure. For sure. So I think in the
last two years before we u got acquired
by Facebook, we won our first Apple
design award uh for checkouts which are
sort of like the Oscars for
very usable and and and uh for for the
best software I guess on the Mac.
>> And then the year after we won a Apple
design award for versions uh the sub
version client and so that gave us a
little bit of you know moment in this
first first moment in the spotlight like
here's a team that's doing exceptional
exceptional design work. That's when we
got a email from Mark asking if we
wanted to come over to Palo Alto to I
remember very clearly like discuss a
future partnership and then uh so we're
like all right that sounds it sounds
that sounds pretty interesting. We'll
fly over to Palo Alto. We didn't really
know what that would mean but um that
became very clear when we walked up to
the reception and the lady said like oh
you guys must be from Sofa here for for
the acquisition and we're like
>> okay that that clears that up so we're
here for for that.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. And and did that happen quickly or
what was that process like?
>> You know, three to four weeks to figure
out uh a good deal and figure out why
they were interested in in acquiring us
in the first place. Um and then it took
probably another three to four months to
iron everything out. Um and we ended up
moving our entire Amsterdam based team
over to PaloAlto.
>> And what was their motivation? So I
think um pretty early on Facebook
understood that you know they they had a
pretty dramatic adoption with with the
platform obviously as as everyone knows
and they were really good at hiring and
onboarding uh product engineers. Um but
they were so good at that that they kind
of like the designers at the company at
that time were just vastly uh
outnumbered by the amount of engineers
and I think the ratio was something wild
like
>> you know one in a 100 or one one on 200.
So, so by now this metric I think people
understand very clearly and it was
celebrated a couple years ago like oh an
IBM would celebrate that they had like
on every 20 engineers they would have
five designers so that's like a much
healthier ratio to build good products
with u but and this is 20 2011 so we're
talking like 15 years back I think no
one was really
>> thinking about that so you just had
designers to support all the software
development but not a lot and definitely
not enough for all the surface area of a
of a platform like Facebook. And so part
of the strategy I think from Mark and
Chris Cox was running products at the
time at Facebook uh was that they
basically said like who are all the who
are all the high quality product design
you know studios agencies products um
that could be interesting for us to
talent hire or like make aqua hires out
of and bring on board um uh design the
future of of the Facebook platform. I'm
curious how the experience was different
especially from a design perspective
going from you know running your own
agency doing your own work building your
own products to working on something
like Facebook serving you know the most
users ever in the world in in a single
product
>> a mild culture shock to to transition
from I mean Sofa at the time were like
15 people based out of Amsterdam
obsessing over
>> building Mac apps which in you know if
you look back that was a was much
smaller uh endeavor than Facebook ever
became,
>> right?
>> But this was also one of the main
motivations for us to to go through with
the acquisition is we were very
intrigued by we have an opportunity now
to go to Silicon Valley company. maybe I
think the the biggest uh opportunity in
Silicon Valley at that moment in time
>> to see how how these folks built built
this business like how do they go about
building products? How do they go about
scaling? How do they for us we really
saw that as a as a pretty unique
learning opportunity.
>> And then you spent a few years there.
>> We did.
>> And then you made the decision to leave
and and ultimately started what became
Framer. take us through that process of
deciding to start a company and and how
you came up with the initial idea.
>> Our intention was to really join
Facebook and and and absorb as much as
we could um about how to how to build a
company like that of that scale really
to then also take all those learnings
and and and take a shot at at building
our own startup. Um one that could
potentially uh be so successful that it
would also have, you know, a right to
IPO, if you will. And so that was
intentional for you going in is like we
want to get all of these learnings
because I know that I want to do
something.
>> Yes, it was intentional. Yeah. Yeah. We
probably went stayed at Facebook for two
two and a half years. Um so longer than
we intended to stay. We learned a lot
about both, you know, the culture at
Silicon Valley, how scaling and building
a large business like that kind of
works. Um and I think like some of the
lessons of that were highly influential
in how we build out Framer as a company.
I do think that
working at such a successful company as
Facebook, uh, it kind of warps your
perspective of what's normal. Um, and so
for us quitting that, uh, that company,
it took it took took almost a full year
to sort of like rejust to okay, but in
reality, no people are building
successful companies and nothing is
really working. And so it doesn't really
matter that you have all these amazing
ideas if you don't have this insane user
base to to experiment with,
>> right?
>> It was a big reality check for us. Um,
and so it took a full year to sort of
>> adjusted that. And also I think one of
the
>> the things that we we were pretty
intentional about as well is is we
wanted to pick something to work on that
we really enjoyed, right? And so that's
probably a good piece of advice still
today is if you are either a subject
expert on a certain topic or you're just
insanely passionate about you [snorts]
know something XYZ is likely a good idea
that if you go spend time in that area
you might have a higher chance of of u
succeeding. Also you can't really build
a really successful company in a short
amount of time. Maybe nowadays that's
being challenged a little bit with some
of the companies that are just 20
employees and hitting these insane AR
numbers, but over the last 20 years has
largely been true. And I I also think
that some of the successes that we see
now are like those are insane outliers.
So you can hope to build an insane
outlier of a company, but in general, I
think it takes 5, 10, 15, 20 years to
build something of substance.
>> And you talk about working on something
that you're passionate about and an
expert at. And clearly for you that was
design.
>> Was it obvious when you were starting
that framer should be a design tool or
was that something that took you a while
to get to?
>> Yeah, it took us a while and it was not
not that obvious. I think in that year
we were basically testing a bunch of
different ideas and so by mean I mean my
co-founder and we made our first hire uh
Benjamin Damour out of the Netherlands.
And so the three of us were kind of
rapid prototyping different directions
of things that we thought were were
exciting.
>> And so in that first year, we built a
Bitcoin app which in hindsight we could
have also that would have not been a bad
>> that would have been pretty good. But
[laughter]
>> this is 2011 2012
>> 2011 2012. So we made a you know first
wallet app something that uh looked like
a early version of maybe a Coinbase
something that you would help uh would
help you um buy crypto and and and trade
in it. We discarded that. We're like,
"Ah, this is too small. You need like a
a banking license for it. It's it seems
like a lot of overhead that we don't
really enjoy. Like it's not really the
type of company that we wanted to
build." Then we built um sort of like a
fashion app where we're always
interested in in online shopping and
e-commerce. Uh and so one of the things
that we thought would be dope is if you
could um instead of just like shop for
random articles like a black sweater,
you could like try it on yourself. Mhm.
>> So, we made a prototype of, you know,
how do you get yourself into into an in
into an iPhone app and how do we get you
to browse products in a in a in a online
store and then try them on yourself so
you can sort of like make a
>> make a version of an outfit that you
would really enjoy.
>> Also discarded that.
>> Mh.
>> And then with the third try, we're like,
you know, we're already like six or nine
months in trying these different
products and kind of building them out.
But the way that we built them out was
as prototypes. Mhm.
>> And so at the end we go like well if we
are doing that prototyping uh which was
also a uh big thing at at Facebook um we
why don't we try to build a product for
that and that became after about a year
I think the first version of framer
which we called framer studio and we put
that on the market and it kind of got
adopted in the first year right away by
people that were kind of like us and so
you know product designers that had a
limited amount of time to put a
prototype together or demo of an idea to
present to an executive or to use in a
sales or in a in a pitch in a startup
pitch or in a sales pitch even. So at
the end of the the first year we're like
okay we we have something here. Um
designers at Dropbox were using it
designers at Twitter were using it.
Designers at Microsoft were using it.
Amazon at at the end of the first year,
we couldn't really believe like all of
these designers, product designers are
using Framework Studio, our 12-month old
product
>> to present their ideas to to to the to
teams.
>> And did you try raising money at that
point?
>> We did. Um, we went back to SF because
there's still no reputable or not a
large uh venture community in in Europe.
Uh, that has changed. Nowadays we
definitely have a strong uh VC community
in in all of Europe but 15 or 10 or 10
years ago not as much. So came back back
to Silicon Valley and we had like the
most interesting conversations where
because of our time at Facebook and some
of the progress that we made people
would say literally to us like well you
guys will will not have any problems
raising I just don't really know about
this design thing like just you know if
you I'll introduce you to the next
investor and you can do the pitch but
just play that part you know just play
that down a little bit and if you think
back to that moment in time so 10 years
ago I think design at that or the design
tooling thing really is it was um it was
we're in a transition from from
Photoshop to Sketch.
>> Yeah.
>> And so what investors and outsiders
would see what was like okay so we have
one you [clears throat] know product
from Adobe that everyone apparently uses
to make uh software and websites
>> and that's not just being replaced by
another product. It's kind of the state
of things. Um, and I think another big
part of that was if you look inside
these orgs.
Um, so you look inside of a Facebook,
you see a thousand engineers work on the
Facebook platform, how many designers?
Well, after we left, uh, I think it was
more something like 80 or 90 people on a
thousand engineers. So, if you if you
take that metric into account, it's
still it's that's not that big. It's not
that big. And so that was part of the
reason why some folks would tell us
like, hm, is this is this really like a
big enough market for you to go after?
And I guess now, you know, 10 years
later, we all have kind of agreed that
yes, design is um is well, it's still
not equal to engineering, but it is a
really significant market. There's a lot
of people that want to design and build
things that are not engineers
necessarily,
>> and you can build multiple uh
generational companies uh in that space.
Uh, no problem.
>> And even the role of product designer
wasn't as much of a thing, you know, 15
years ago. Not at all.
>> Around like you were there kind of at
the creation of that as a role, right?
>> Yeah. The roles and the titles they kind
of like go in go in tides. I think Apple
>> originally coined that sort of like
interface designer. That was the the
term that I that I think Apple used a
lot at the time. I think Facebook made
that a bit more generic and said, "Hey,
this is a you know, product design is a
field." Um, and then now I think that's
also being challenged. Again, I just
don't think that we fully know yet what
the the next term is that people are
going to
>> um use to describe what they're what
they're up to dayto-day.
>> And so, okay, so you launched Framer. It
was growing. You had a lot of people
using it.
>> And after a few years, it it kind of
tapped out. And for sure,
>> yeah, like tell us more about that and
what your thought process was at the
time and and how you evaluated what to
do next
>> when we raised the seed rounds. Um and
we after we race a series A our entire
hypothesis was fairly it's pretty easy
to digest. We were just looking at okay
so this is let's say this is the end to
end design process. You start with a
idea in your in your mind. The idea
needs to come out in a certain shape or
form. Typically people just make a
sketch, right? They just like draw some
make a drawing of a or a picture or
something. And then after that initial
idea is out, now it's just a a matter of
like adding fidelity all the ways to the
moment that it becomes clear that now
it's good enough to be programmed,
right? An engineer is going to take it
over and we're going to put it in the in
the product.
>> Um, and that was very true for Facebook
at the time. We would have an idea, we
would sketch it out, we would make it
into a graphical mockup um using Sketch
or Photoshop. Um, and then it sometimes
it would be prototyped. We thought
if prototyping becomes just easy enough,
it's not unlikely that you know if that
is now at the very far end of the of the
the the creative process, it's not
unlikely that it's just going to eat
into all the other fidelity modes.
Because if prototyping is both powerful
enough and easy enough, then why would
you make a static mockup? like what
what's the benefit of having a bunch of
different screens? If you can tie those
screens together and add more fidelity
so that I can give you a phone and
instead of you looking at a picture and
thinking like what needs to happen next,
you just tap and swipe and move move
thing move things around. So you
>> that was our assumption and in hindsight
I think we were uh a bit too early with
with that assumption. We sort of like
beted on that that would happen.
>> And I think the other thing that we
betted on was that we thought that the
design profession would grow a lot more
aggressively than it did.
>> So it it definitely grew by a lot, but
the sort of like the designer seat at
the table. It's not like design took
over the table. It's like it we now have
a good seat at the table and uh it most
companies value brands and the user
experience um
>> and what things look like aesthetically
but we didn't Yeah. I think th those two
things like the amount of designers in a
company that are willing to prototype
and the importance of prototyping in the
uh creative process I think we
overestimated how hard that would that
would go. And so at a certain point we
hit I think around four or five million
in AR. We're trying to figure out like
now we got to double or we actually have
to triple right like 5 to 15 would be
that that'd be a good jump.
>> So to do that we kind of looked at some
of the customers that we had. Let's say
we took Amazon as an example who's one
of the largest companies that that that
were out there and we're like okay cool.
So how how many designers inside Amazon
adopted Framer? And they're like, "Well,
we have, let's say, let's call it 100 on
on a thousand." Like, "Okay, so what we
have to do is get these other 900 people
and then we can still 10x." Yeah. Easy
math.
>> Yeah.
>> Then we went over to those folks. And in
conversation with a lot of them, we just
heard a lot of similar feedbacks like,
"Well, I still view prototyping as
optional. Sometimes I don't really want
to do it. Um, sometimes you still just
go directly to an engineer, work with
them. Sometimes that's faster." And so a
lot of like soft reasons I think for for
us just not really hitting product
market fit.
>> So you got to four or five million. I
think a lot of founders would get there
and they'd be like product market fit.
This is the promised land. And for you
it sounds like you talked you were
trying to expand and grow and by talking
to people you realized they didn't want
to do the thing that you do.
>> Absolutely.
>> In your head were you kind of like
>> you should do more prototyping like it's
the future. Like did you feel the urge
to convince them they should change how
they operated and how did you digest the
feedback that you
>> 100%. I mean the natural urge is to is
to do that right like you build
something
>> you have a vision of how that something
should be used and how people should
think about that. I think it took us a
full year to just keep trying, right?
Like as long as we do more education, as
long as we have like more material
online, as long as we make, you know, we
get the next seven case studies out and
now the world will see what we see,
right? What we want them to see. In
hindsight, you know, that's just a
lesson that you go through as a founder
that that that's not how it works.
You're not really going to change
people's opinion at a big scale um in
time for for you to to to succeed. Maybe
if we just, you know, stuck to the 5
million, said, "Okay, we're going to
slow grow and we'll just wait it out for
10 years, and then maybe we're, you
know, the next prototyping
one hit wonder uh by accident when it
becomes a hit in the mainstream in seven
years time. It's not a great way to
build a business. So I I advise against
taking that route."
>> Yeah. At 5 million ARR, what changes did
you make in order to to get on the the
growth path that you wanted to get on?
So about after a year basically Kun and
I we sat down we're like we have to we
have to ch we have to do something right
like we just raised our series B a year
prior we're kind of like getting stuck
with the revenue we have to figure out
like what do we do because the ambition
is to build a really successful company
and the ambition is to get
>> we should be tripling the revenue this
year and tripling the revenue the year
after and then maybe we can double and
double again. Typically companies pivot
much earlier, right? And so if you raise
a series A, series B,
>> you should have product market fit and
things should be accelerating quite
predictably.
>> And for us, they kind of stopped. We
kind of had, you know, only three
options if you think of it. Um, we could
either sell the whole company, we could
quit, which would be pretty bad, but
always an option
>> or we could pivot. And so for us, it
never felt like we have three options.
We were like, we we only have one
option. We should we should pivot into
something that we think can be much
bigger. And so that's what we decided to
do. Um really trying to to in that
process, we really just tried to bring
everything back to the basics, right?
And so um we had to obviously make some
adjustments to the organization and and
sort of um we had a whole commercial
team that was selling our prototyping
solution that we kind of had to part
ways with. So we had like had to make
the team a lot smaller and then really
>> think okay we have built a lot of
interesting technology over the last
four or five years. can we leverage that
somehow to solve a problem that a lot of
people have and that was our starting
point. So instead of saying okay we're
just starting from scratch
>> we had built a performant canvas that
ran in the browser like Figma had
>> we had multiplayer functionality we had
versioning history like it was all
functional and of pretty good quality
like we still we still like building
good products and so
>> we're trying to figure out okay if
prototyping is too small what will be
much bigger and so we started
interviewing
you know hundreds of people um and just
asking them instead of and not even
mentioning the technology that we have
but just like interviewing people and
just asking more questions like what's a
problem that you have and the big one
that we uncovered which was you know
it's also obvious everything's obvious
in hindsight right was people hate
rebuilding
>> and rebuilding happens happened all the
time still happens all the time right
meaning you have an idea you make a
sketch and instead of it being usable
needs to go some someone else and now
that person needs to make it real and
that rebuilding is is is massively
inefficient it's um it's a basically
people people or teams doing work twice.
Like you do the work of coming up with
the idea, sketching it out, making it
pretty, and then at the end instead of
being satisfied and now it's shipped,
like you can't ship it. Someone else
needs to go and make it make it a real
thing,
>> right?
>> And so that's what we tried to solve
with websites [snorts] first. Um mostly
because we couldn't really see a good
way to go apps first. That seemed too
complicated to start with. So we're
like, okay, so instead of let's start
with something that we think more people
need, which is a website, can we make it
so that you can draw the website on your
on a visual canvas uh that feels like
Figma sketch. So it feels like a design
tool. At the end of that process, you
click a publish button and we make it a
performant website for you. That thing
clicked. That was aha moment for a lot
of our uh early beta beta testers is
like this feedback loop. It's almost
addictive like it's it's satisfying for
people to
>> draw something out and then just being
able to see it live a second later and
um and so we we had internal usage was
really really high where uh which was
promising signal and then we saw you
know early small startups adopted
designers using it more and more for
portfolios and hobby projects and that's
when we kind of figured like this might
be uh a winner.
>> Yeah. How long did it take you to
rebuild all of that? And then how soon
after you launched it did it become
clear to you that this was working and
this was going to be the thing that was
going to take you to the next levels you
wanted to get to?
>> Getting to the point that we knew we
want to we we we need to pivot took
longer than the pivot.
>> Mhm. So it took about a full year to
acknowledge like we need to do something
and this is not working and then
executing from there to the new product.
It was about 9 to 10 months and we
launched in four years ago
>> in May and uh we hit a million in ARR
the December after that. So in just um
>> seven or eight months so we're okay this
is this is good like this is good early
traction. And then in the second and the
third year really focused on you know
not just the the the solo designers um
making their own websites but trying to
figure out is this useful for teams as
well
>> and so we built a CMS uh for framer so
that larger teams could manage a lot of
content at the same time and that's when
when we really saw uh a lot of adoption
uh Y cominator has about you know 50% uh
plus I think it's 55% of all YC startups
now choose framer to launch our website
with. So, we're obviously like super
excited and proud about that, but it's
mostly also a signal. It's like it's
it's for startups building their
websites, teams, agencies. Um, we have a
bunch of really large scaleups and
enterprises running on framework as
well.
>> Yeah, it's amazing to see how you've
come out of all of that, especially with
a lot of difficult decisions that you
had to make. I think one of the tough
periods that a lot of founders have is
when they're in this kind of gray area
of like they have a thing, it's sort of
working. Yeah. It's got some users, got
some revenue, but it's not the breakout
thing that they really want to be
building. Y
>> and to start back over from scratch or
reset everything is so difficult to do.
It took you a year to come to that
conclusion. I'm curious, looking back,
is there anything that you could have
done or seen or handled differently to
not spend a year doing that? or do you
think that's just part of the process
that that you need to go through that in
order to come out on the other end in
the right way?
>> I mean, I think uh part of of being a
founder and starting a company is like
you're going to have to have some
tolerance for pain. And a lot of
founders refer to this as like got to
got to go into the pain cave because a
lot of what you want to build and a lot
of the assumptions that you have about
what will work,
>> they are typically just all wrong. Um
and so if I think back of myself, like
it's hard to acknowledge it to
acknowledge it to to yourself almost
right it's like I am mostly wrong about
most of these things
>> and even today I think let's say we
build a hundred things in a year all
hundred are important but typically only
one or two or maybe like a handful of
things really move the needle on a
certain
>> right
>> thing and that's just a reality of of of
building products and so if I had to
point out one thing that I keep
repeating to founders over and over
again that I even now now that we're
much later stage and we're doing a lot
more revenue. I have to remind myself
and the team of the same thing. Talk
more to users.
>> Mhm.
>> Give yourself exposure to the user.
Build build a feedback loop with real
people using your product. That goes for
a startup with one founder and it goes
for a startup with thousand thousand
employees and it also goes for a company
with tens of thousands of employees. is
really easy to
lose that connection to the user and
start operating on your assumptions of
what people want. And that is a an easy
mistake to make that that I think
>> many people make. And so to avoid that,
talk talk to users at least once a week.
Ask them how they're doing, what they're
struggling with, what's easy, what's
hard, what the next thing is that you
think that they think you need to need
to build, why they're using some
competitor for use case that you think
should be yours.
>> Um, just all of that. Just make try to
make it um part of part of what you do
daily.
>> And it's even harder to do that as your
team gets bigger. And you know, you've
got 120 people now. In the early days
when it was just you founders, it was
much easier to just, you know, grab
somebody, your first handful of users,
and go talk to them and learn from them.
Now that you've got 120 people at the
company, you're supposed to be doing CEO
things. How do you keep that connection
to the users? Because you have to fight
the inertia that pulls you towards all
these other things that you're supposed
to be doing. Yeah.
>> And so, what are the things specifically
that you do in your day-to-day to try to
keep that connection to all of your
users and get the ground truth from
them? I mean it's different for every
founder but for us we really so both Kun
and myself are really I think of myself
as a product person first and foremost.
So you really spend a lot of time in the
product and talking to users uh about
their product experience. We do that on
on Slack. We have a big beta channel.
That's where we talk to users. Uh I
personally spend a lot of time on
Twitter where we talk to a lot of users
there. We're trying to keep the company
intentionally
small. Uh so we get to spend a lot of
time with uh both the customer and also
our our employees on figuring out what
what the next thing is that uh that we
want to build.
>> I'm curious in all of this, you know,
you you've spent a lot of time as a
founder now, more than a decade working
on Framer. And how did your design
background uh help you or or shape your
abilities as a founder?
>> Most of where I got started, I got
started from a a visual ambition, an
aesthetic interest
>> over becoming a problem solver. Mhm.
>> And that's probably the main thing that
I had to unlearn and really
>> get much closer to what is the what is
the thing that we're trying to solve
instead of here's the thing that someone
made someone makes it pretty. Yeah.
>> Someone makes it look good. Um does it
work for for the use case for the
customer for whatever thing that we're
trying to solve. And so I think
>> a benefit of being a designer is you
have a certain empathy and a certain
interest in building. you know, it can
either be a good-looking product or or
or a or building a product that just
works very well. And that interest is is
obviously useful if you join a startup
or you're if you're a startup founder
yourself. We have a small uh um angel
fund called Fina where we invest in in
early stage startups as well. We
obviously invest in design forward
companies um mostly in the productivity
and creativity space. And I can now
sometimes I see like okay this is a very
talented founder, very talented designer
and this person's spending way too much
time making things look really good that
doesn't like this doesn't matter at all.
Like this does not help you find product
market fit. And typically it's you know
the explanation is always the same
because I I I give the same explanation.
It's like I'm I'm just doing it on the
side. It's just my Saturday night hobby
thing. It's like well instead of that
maybe you know maybe the next Saturday
night you should just go talk to five
more people and figure out what why
they're not using your product. The
ambition of most people is to make a
product in a in a certain way that they
want to see it, right? And their tastes
and their preferences, they're hidden in
the proposals that they make. And so
figuring out what that is and if that
aligns with what a customer wants,
that's that's the that's where it gets
hard. So, it's both an advantage and
there's disadvantages, I think, to being
a design founder.
>> Yeah, it's a good summary of it. Looking
forward, uh, AI is reshaping a lot of
things. I'm curious your take on on how
you think it's reshaping, um, the role
of designer and just design in general
going forward.
>> I'm mostly very excited about what's
happening in the in the AI space, but
I'm surprised by the lack of,
let's say, success that I see among
professional designers. So I think like
the the learning curve to create
something from scratch has been
dramatically lowered, right? Everyone
can agree it's much easier to make a
picture nowadays than it is 10 years
ago.
>> 10 years ago to get something to look
good, you had to spend an unreasonable
amount of time on the internet trying to
figure out
>> how to operate anything from like Cinema
4D to Photoshop and lighting and
understand realw world scenario. Like
how do you make something look exactly
like you want?
>> Yeah.
Now, anyone can go into MidJourney and
render whatever uh is on their mind.
>> And so, if I look at all of the
generative AI tooling that's been built,
I'm still kind of surprised by the
amount of really great work that I see
designers produce with those solutions,
if that makes sense. We've been doing a
lot of AI produced video ads at Framer.
I think they're they are of a like
exceptional quality. They're made by uh
one or two people in our team that have
embraced AI and are just really
interested in what's of the what's at
the forefront
>> of the capabilities of all these all
these models and are really like trying
to figure out how do we make amazing
content with this. I don't see that at
scale yet. I don't see this being
embraced by all startups and all
companies and the overall quality of ads
on the internet has dramatically 10xed
>> which is weird because it's never been
easier
>> never been easier to make exceptional
work with all this tooling.
>> Yeah.
>> And so there's a either a lag happening
there and and maybe maybe it's a matter
of time and people need to re-educate
themselves but that's something that I'm
kind of surprised by. Yeah.
>> But um this is the main reason I'm not
that worried about
you know, designers
being out of a job or something. I I I I
just don't really see that. It's it's
we're adopting new tools. Hopefully, we
get to like higher quality standards.
Hopefully, the speed of execution goes
up. It can be really frustrating for
startup founders to have to wait six
months to get a pretty website, which
should be the speed of execution. It's
kind of
>> the thing there like you want to move
fast and and and experiment with a lot
of different directions. What are you
seeing um on the product and and website
design side of things in terms of uh
think about the people that are maybe
the designers that are most cutting edge
at your company? What are the AI tools
that they're using to to help them 10x
their work?
>> I think mostly still very generic LLMs,
right? So most most people will probably
use you know chimp or some other some
other model anthropic um for their
day-to-day uh to get most of the mundane
creative preparation work out of the way
and so for video that could be writing
you can now write a script in 10 minutes
and then turn it over to an LLM and say
fill in the details. Uh so some of the
mundane work around production I think
uh is be is being replaced by by AI or
the time inensive stuff that people
don't really enjoy doing. I think in the
website space specifically there isn't a
good model yet that I know of that
generates websites. So what most of
framer Figma lovable vzero the solutions
that we have in place is working with
LLMs which is a textbased model to get
websites back. There's a wide range of
limitations that that solution has.
>> If you compare to an image model which
is trained to produce images for
websites, you need you know
>> layout, responsiveness, animations. Can
it do a form? Where does the form input
go? Does it connect to database? Like it
can get a lot quickly.
>> And so most of the solutions that I see
for generating websites,
>> they kind of like all produce very
similar results. And that's where I
think especially for designers, there's
such a massive opportunity now to
leverage AI to get going faster, but
then invest a lot of time and energy in
brand and polish and and a positioning
of of the product that you're trying to
put on the market.
>> And I'm curious for uh what advice you
would have for designers that are are
considering becoming founders, thinking
about making the leap, especially from
your own journey. What would you
recommend for them?
>> Do it.
>> Yeah. Yeah, do it. It's it's one of the
one of the most exciting things. I Yeah,
I think uh most most designers should be
founders and instead of you're just a
designer trying to work at a company and
figure figure it out. I think there's a
lot about design as a profession that
that that is easily applied to being a
founder. And if I have to like sum up
the advice, you just go just go try it.
It's uh you'll you'll figure out fast
enough if it's for you and if you're
you're really like excited about solving
a really wide variety of problems on a
daily basis because it doesn't stop with
you're designing and making a nice
product. It's you're building a company,
you're hiring people, you're have to
fire people from time to time, you're
raising money, you're talking to
investors and so
>> it's a lot of different types of design
challenges, right? Applied to different
areas. I mean, if you think of designers
as problem solvers, then we should um
technically be be excited about all of
those things. Um but not every designer
is. And so if I look back at myself 20
years ago, I was probably the furthest
away from being a generic problem solver
was really specialized in I make
incredible iconography and user
interfaces. I'm just really obsessed
with that thing. And so going from there
to a founder that then needs to operate
a company and and deal with all those
challenges has been for me has been a
really amazing journey, but I'm not sure
if it's for everyone. And so the only
way to really figure that out is join
YC, right? Like [laughter]
>> Well, it seems like so much of your
story has been optimizing for your own
personal learning and growth. And the
best way to test that is to start a
company.
>> Yeah, for sure. How about for founders
maybe, you know, two technical
co-founders that um uh want to level up
their design, want to care more about
it. What advice do you have for them?
>> I think that just acknowledging the fact
that that design and brands are
increasingly
>> differentiators from from you and the
competition that you have around you. I
think I think in 2025 and moving
forwards it's you cannot really get away
with a templated solution to your site
or your product um you have to figure
out you know how do I get people to pay
attention to what I'm what I'm doing and
for that you need a little bit of
creativity uh and that create creativity
doesn't have to come from the technical
founder but just acknowledge that you
understand that that is a there's going
to have to be a moment where you have to
invest in that and the earlier on that
you do that I think the better and so
you can hire a designer you can find a
co-founder that maybe has a design
background you can work with a
freelancer or an agency and give them a
good brief of of what you are after I
think a very easy trick for people that
are non-designers has to do a bit with
like just train your taste
>> what's the best way to do that
>> just collect stuff that you think looks
dope like really easy just like start
collecting things on the internet that
you think are inspiring to you Right?
So, it could be it could be the front
page of apple.com and then not just save
a screenshot, but just make some notes
like why why do you think this is good
and just explain it to yourself and then
you build up a collection over time um
where you're kind of like figuring out
like what what do I like and and what do
I want things to look like? It's a fun
practical thing that doesn't take a lot
of time, but you will develop more of
your own taste instead of just looking
at everything on the internet and kind
of like only seeing the information
that's there. what else do I think this
is high quality, this is low quality.
Why do I think that?
>> Some of that I think anyone can do and
it will will go a long way in in
building up your own confidence that you
also can kind of figure out what what is
good and what is bad.
>> So making the the subconscious more
conscious.
>> That's a good way to put it.
>> Interesting. Um okay, so what's next for
Framer? What are you excited about
coming up? I mean obviously we've spent
a lot of time over the last 12 months on
AI um and really trying to figure out
how to put how to offer that in the
product so that people are very excited
to work alongside AI to build websites.
We have a really exciting release coming
up that I can't really talk about. Uh
but Q1 will have a ve very large AI
forward uh event that um I [snorts] hope
is going to put a real dent in in how
people think of creating websites as a
designer that are of a high quality
alongside AI for for some of the some of
the actual implementation of that
website.
>> Awesome. Well, Yan, thanks so much for
coming on and and sharing uh your story,
which is incredible to hear and there
was a ton of great advice uh from your
design background as well. So really
appreciate it.
>> Thanks for the time. I enjoyed being
here.