Title: Recall.ai: Unlocking the World’s Conversations
Video ID: IGXKIL57uwc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGXKIL57uwc
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-09-10T15:00:29Z
Duration: PT26M43S
Views: 2958
Likes: 67
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 729

Description:
Recall.ai is building the fundamental data layer for AI — the API that powers meeting and conversation recording across Zoom, Teams, Meet, phone calls, and more. Fresh off raising $38M in Series B funding at a $250M valuation, Recall.ai is cementing its role as the infrastructure every AI company needs.

With less than 30 employees, they’re running infrastructure at massive scale: powering over 1,000 companies, handling three terabytes per second of video, and reaching nearly $20M in ARR. 

In t

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
I am excited to welcome David from
Recall AI who's joining me today uh
fresh off the announcement of a huge
series B. So David, thank you for
joining.
>> Thank you Erin. It's great to be here.
>> You have an incredible story that I'm
excited for everybody to be able to hear
and I think there's a lot of uh really
interesting lessons to take from it.
Maybe first, why don't you give people
an overview what is recall.ai AI and
give us like the current state of the
business of course. So recall is the API
for meeting recording. We make it easy
for developers to capture real time
audio and video from Zoom Teams, Google
Meet, in-person conversations, phone
calls, all these different sources of
conversation data. So we're the
infrastructure layer that over a
thousand companies uses to tap into this
data set. And we are today nearly at 20
million in revenue with a team of less
than 30 people. Uh we run this
infrastructure at massive scale. Uh and
we power over a thousand companies in
the space. So we're launching 8 million
EC2 instances every month. We're
processing 3 terabytes per second of raw
video at peak load every single day. Uh
and it's just been a lot of fun. Uh it's
been a great part being a infrastructure
component in over a thousand great AI
companies. And I I think what's even
more interesting is like you're doing it
with not very many people, right?
>> That is correct. So we are a team of
less than 30 in total primarily in SF uh
in person SF. But it's been really
exciting because uh we're just running
this infrastructure at such large scale.
We're larger than 99.999%
of companies on AWS and we are just
getting started. I mean, we've grown our
raw usage over 10x uh in the last 18
months, and we're going to grow another
10x in the next 18 months, and that's
just going to be uh just a super
exciting engineering problem and a super
exciting space to be in.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Okay. So, it didn't start
like that though. You went through a lot
of stuff in the early days getting it to
this point. So, why don't you tell us
about the early days of just getting
this started? And um my first
interaction was with you was you
actually won a YC hackathon. I think
this was in 2019 that guaranteed you an
interview at YC, right? I think you were
like 19 years old. Is that right?
>> I was 19 years old. I was studying at
the University of Wateroo. I was
studying software engineering there. And
when I was in high school, I had done a
lot of hackathons. Uh and when I heard
YC had a hackathon, I was like, "This is
amazing. Uh I should do this." At the
time, I had done one internship. I had
some money saved up. Uh so I spent all
of my cash on a flight to Mountain View
uh to go and attend this hackathon. Uh
and we're there and we built a thing and
we presented it and I remember I was up
there on stage and Michael Cyel was
grilling me with questions about how is
this going to be a viable business and I
was like this is really cool. Um and we
ended up uh winning that hackathon and
getting this interview and that was not
actually what I expected. I didn't
expect to win. I was like, I'm going to
go and do this YC hackathon. I'm going
to have a lot of fun. Um, but we ended
up winning and that uh turned my plans
and schedules on its head. Uh, because I
knew I wanted to start a startup. That's
the reason I was studying software
engineering. That's the reason I was uh
at Waterlue, but I didn't think I'd get
a YC interview so soon. Uh, so we had uh
this was in November, I believe. And
then we had the interview scheduled in 3
weeks and I took all of my plans and I
threw them out the window and I spent
those three weeks working on getting
that hackathon project into YC interview
ready shape. Uh so we went to all the
people we knew across campus and we
tried to sell them a $20 a month license
for this thing so we could have some
users. Uh we spent all night just
writing code and trying to get the thing
to work and uh get enough features so we
could start selling it to these folks.
And when the interview actually rolled
around, it was scheduled uh the week of
my exams. So at Waterlue, I was taking
six courses. I had six exams that week,
two on Monday, two on Tuesday, and two
on Wednesday. Remember the interview was
on Tuesday in person in Mountain View.
And I was going to school in Canada. I
didn't go to any of my exams. I put
another flight on the credit card and I
went and interviewed uh for the Y
cominator batch in Mountain View in
person. Uh skipped out on all the exams.
Thankfully, we got in uh and I joined
the winner 20 batch uh about two or 3
weeks later.
>> Yeah, I I remember it very vividly
actually uh the interview with you. Um
you had a different co-founder at the
time.
>> Yeah. Um, and then I think you had a
different co-founder during the batch
and you have uh now your long-term
co-founder um Amanda who joined um
shortly after the batch ended. Talk
about, you know, what it was like
working with different people um
throughout that process and what signals
you saw that told you that maybe one
co-founder wasn't working and then the
signals that you saw that ultimately
convinced you that you know the
relationship with Amanda was the right
thing. I mean, all of the people that I
worked with, I have deep respect for,
and they've gone on to do great things.
Uh, and they've gone on to accomplish a
lot. I think the first time around, the
thing that was just really tough was
doing YC meant leaving college, and
that's a big decision. I think it's
become more popular nowadays for people
to leave college early. Uh, I think I'm
atypical amongst the dropouts that I
actually liked college a lot. Uh, and a
lot of the friends that I had were quite
studious and took it quite seriously.
And um I think the original person I I
did the interview with who I won the
hackathon with just didn't want to leave
college uh because that was uh not the
path that he wanted to set his life
down. And I respect that and he's gone
on to do great things. I ended up
working with a different friend uh
during the batch uh and we worked on
this thing. We uh tried to get in good
shape uh and then this was 2020 and co
hit. uh the world got turned on its head
and I think this other friend of mine
looked around and said well all this
crazy stuff is happening I want to you
know get my life and my career on a more
stable track I'm going to go and leave
this company uh I'm going to go back to
waterlue it's going to be remote that's
going to be fine uh and he's again gone
on to do great things and uh you know
he's he's doing well nowadays but
there's a period of time in the middle
where I was a solo founder for maybe
three or four or five months. And I
think the discussion with Amanda on
joining the company full-time. She had
helped us with uh getting some stuff put
together, building uh some materials for
the first product we shipped, putting
the website, getting that zero to one,
uh doing some of the design for it. And
I think a big part of the decision in
the conversation is actually getting
aligned on what is the reason we are
doing this startup? What is the reason
we are working on this thing together?
and what is the level of commitment
we'll have to it? Uh what are we going
to do when uh things are not going as
planned? And I think having a really
clear idea of that of like the reason
we're building this thing is we want to
build a great software company. If
things aren't going as planned, that is
the natural state of a startup. If
things are going as planned, that's
amazing and you should celebrate it, but
you shouldn't expect that. And we are
going to keep working on this thing
until it works. Uh I think that was a
very important uh agreement to come to.
>> Yeah, one of the questions I ask
co-founders that have recently met each
other is what's the most difficult
conversation you've had with each other
so far.
>> And so yeah, you're right. Like the
steady state is lots of things going
wrong and there's a lot that you're
going to have to work through together,
a lot of, you know, conflict and, you
know, not there's anything wrong with
that. That's just the steady state of
things.
>> Talk about um your first fund raise. You
know, this was the early days. you were
not working uh on this product I believe
right and so talk a little bit about
what that was like and and what you had
to go through there to get that done so
the journey to building recall is that
in 2020 Amanda and I first started by
building a call recorder so this was
prelims this was very early days of
video conferencing being a wide popular
thing uh for the general tech group of
people And we built this call recorder
because well in the past we had done a
ton of user research and we ended up uh
having pages and pages of notes,
gigabytes and gigabytes of recordings uh
but it was really hard to work uh with
this content. So we built this recorder
and we ran that product for nearly 3
years. Over those 3 years uh we got
really good at running that
infrastructure. We ended up spending 70
or 80% of all our engineering effort on
the infrastructure. And that's not
because we wanted to. It's because we
had to. Uh the infrastructure to record
that data was just so critical because
if it went down for even a moment, uh
our customers would lose critical
recordings that they could never get
back. So reliability and stability and
scalability, that was just so important
to our customers uh that we spent an
enormous amount of time on that. At the
same time, what was going on was large
language models were evolving at a
frightening pace. I remember the first
version of chat GPT. Uh you would talk
to it and it would give you back
something semi-coherent and within 9
months you were getting something which
you could you could talk to and it would
sort of resemble a human and nine months
after that it was genuinely really good.
And we're seeing all these companies
building new products on top of
unstructured conversation data using
large language models. LLM enabled these
companies to build products that 18
months ago would have been magic. It
would have been beyond the frontier of
AI research. And we realized we have
really good infrastructure that every
single one of these companies needs. So
we pivoted to recall. We took the
infrastructure we built and we started
selling it as an API. And when we first
started doing that, we pivoted in
February of 2022. Before that, we had
tried to raise around uh we actually
deferred demo day and we tried to raise
around for this call recorder and that
didn't go well. Uh we spent 4 months uh
that first time uh raising and we raised
about 160k for that call recording
product. And when we raised the first
round for recall, that was also not
easy. Uh we spent maybe eight or nine
months fundraising total. And we had no
connections. We were two uh random
people uh living in Canada. COVID was
happening. Everything was shut down. And
I talked to over
120 investors for that seed round. We
raised about 2 and a.5 million. And
every single one of those investors, we
had to get an intro to them from another
founder. So we sent over a thousand
emails to founders handwritten over the
course of eight or nine months uh to get
these 120 meetings that ended up being
uh maybe around 10 investments and those
investors did very very well. Um but it
was an enormous amount of effort in the
early days uh to get this thing off the
ground.
>> Yeah. I mean that's crazy. I think most
founders maybe don't appreciate the
level of perseverance that is required
and I think your story embodies that.
your first round you went out you spent
four months and how much did you raise
100
>> 160k
>> 160k for four months three months in
me most people would have given up and
said well you know nobody wants this or
whatever and maybe I should just get
back to work or something and you
refused and you kept going until you
were able to raise a little bit of money
that you know kept things going and then
when you pivoted I mean you spent eight
months raising to get your first seed
round of $2 million dollars um at a time
when you know most people go out for two
weeks or something like that and if if
they don't immediately have the money
that they need then they turn back
around. So, you know, that's one thing
that always sticks with me about your
story is just you refuse to give up and
you just keep going at, you know,
whatever the goal is. In these
instances, it was fundraising, but also
in building your product and and making
that grow. And so, talk about um you had
built this infrastructure for yourself.
You'd raised a seed round. Now, you
know, what convinced you that you were
actually on the right track in building
this infrastructure for everybody else?
So the thing that convinced me that I
was on the right track was that I knew
at a very deep visceral level how hard
this problem was and how painful it was
for the people running this
infrastructure because I myself had ran
this infrastructure in production at
scale for 3 years. I was the one on
call. I was the one responding to the
angry customers. I was the one updating
the infrastructure when we scaled to new
levels that our previous infrastructure
couldn't support and I just had this
very deep conviction that this was a
real problem because I had lived it uh
for so long for the
five or six month period after we
launched that call recording product way
back in 2020. I actually had nightmares
about the infrastructure for five or six
months. Uh, and these are these are
literal nightmares. Like I wake up in
the middle of the night uh dreaming that
I got paged.
>> Uh, so I knew this was a hard problem.
Uh, and I knew that despite what uh
anyone would say that this was real and
uh this was something that needed to be
solved.
>> It makes it easier to find customers too
because you just have to find people
that look like you at the time, right? M
we knew a lot about the space going in
because we had been in that space and
vigorously competed for 3 years. So we
knew all of the other players and the
first thing we did when we pivoted to
this infrastructure product is we
emailed all of our old competitors and
we said hey you know us we're pivoting
we're going to be infrastructure and let
us take this off your hands. And the
majority of people ignored us. They
thought we were trying to uh you know
pull some sort of competitive trick but
there was a few people who were who who
trusted us and said yes I don't want to
deal with this take this off my hands
and we helped them massively reduce the
amount of engineering work they were
wasting on this and it caught on the
other competitors in the space saw their
competitors moving faster because
they're no longer burdened with this
infrastructure and within a year or two
after launching it just became standard
to use something like recall to work
with this data because everybody just
saw how much faster you could move when
you didn't have to build this yourself.
>> You um are an engineer from Waterlue. Um
had never done sales before and now
you're selling to a lot of these really
big customers that are paying you lots
of money.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you learn to get good at sales?
>> That's a great question and we're
working with some fantastic customers
today. Um, we're working with HubSpot,
uh, with ClickUp, with monday.com,
uh, a bunch of amazing companies and
selling to these companies is not easy.
Uh, they're great companies. Uh, they
want to build new things, they want to
innovate, but sales is a skill and it's
a skill that you need to develop.
Honestly, the way that we got good with
sales was we just did a lot of it. So,
the first $2 million in revenue uh that
we closed was pure outbound and 100%
done by Amanda, my co-founder, and we
were on all these sales calls. I think a
lot of engineers and engineeringminded
founders have a weird idea of sales.
They think it's some sort of black
magic. They think it's manipulative, but
that's not true at all. What sales is,
uh, it's two things. It's the first part
is showing someone the value of what
you're building and explaining to them
the value of what you're building in a
clear and compelling way. And the second
part of that, it's helping them navigate
their own company process so they can
get your solution out into the wild. And
it's really just these two things. And
uh it's not uh magic, it's not
manipulative. You're helping someone
realize the value of your product. It's
just a critical part of delivering real
value. Uh so we just did a lot of it. Uh
we got good at it through repetition. Uh
and I think anyone can do sales.
>> Yeah, that's cool. Um what's interesting
is, you know, sometimes founders have
the instinct of like, well, I'm going to
hire a head of sales or hire these sales
reps or something. And it sounds like
you guys are just like, "No, we're going
to do it for a long time." Um and I
think that's actually something that has
been true throughout all of your
company. Um, you have nearly 20 million
in ARR as of, you know, August 2025
here. U growing at an incredible rate,
you know, year-over-year and we'll
continue that growth over the next year
and beyond. Um, and you you've done it
all with how many employees do you have
right now?
>> Uh, less than 30.
>> Less than 30 employees. The revenue per
employee of that is like off the charts.
Is that something that you think about?
Do you want to intentionally be lean as
you're growing this company? um or is
that just you know what you've been
forced to work with?
>> I think the lesson that we've learned is
that by hiring very smart, very driven
people, you can go a very very long way.
The reason that we have a very lean team
is because our bar for talent is very
high. We are in a deeply complex
technical space. We are running
infrastructure at the scales at which
very few other companies in the world
do. Our engineers also own a lot of the
product. They make product decisions.
They talk to customers. And when you're
hiring this kind of person, which is
they're a super good low-level systems
programmer. They can talk to customers.
They can be on sales calls. They can
help close an enterprise deal. It's this
very rare kind of person, but they can
do so much. There's a lot of structure
and process uh that you don't need. uh
if you have a group of people you really
trust and who can really handle not only
the work in front of them but getting
that outcome accomplished uh getting
that new product out into the market uh
getting that uh upset customer satisfied
and delighted with the service. One of
the things that's just been really
amazing for us is hiring people who've
been startup founders before. more than
half of our engineering team uh has been
previous startup founders
>> and like a big part of that is really
asking someone well what's the reason
you're looking to join this company
what's your motivation I think the thing
that's worked really well for us is
hiring people who want to push
themselves who want to learn new things
who see working at recall as an
opportunity to achieve something great I
think that's the kind of motivation that
gets you excited about doing things
outside your job description that gets
you excited about learning about the
customer. Uh that gets you excited about
understanding uh how companies and sales
and marketing and all of this stuff
works. I think that's sort of the core
of building a very high agency team is
just people who can own these these big
projects.
>> Yeah, that's super interesting. It's
almost like full stack employees or
something. You don't want to just put
people in the box of like you're just an
engineer, you're just this or you're
just that. Not only do you have the high
bar to get in, but it sounds like you
have the high bar of the expectations
that you hold all of your employees to,
which is you're not just responsible for
just writing the code, you need to be
talking to the customers, helping us
close deals. Like it's a total package
because when you can do that, it forces
everybody to, you know, raise their own
personal bar and and what they can
accomplish. The thing that's gets harder
as your company grows uh and Alexander
Wang has written a great article about
this uh but every persontoperson handoff
you lose 90% of the information and 90%
of the nuance and the other side of that
is if you can have a single person who
can do more than one thing if you can
have an engineer who can uh not only
write the code but also get customers to
use that product or code that they've
built. you've gained a massive amount of
efficiency and you've gained a massive
amount of quality because you're
avoiding this 90% loss uh as you pass
this work between people. It's like
here's this rocket ship. There's a
limited number of seats. We're going to
ask you to do a lot though if you want a
seat on this thing. What's next for for
Recall.ai and where do you see the next
couple years going? It's obviously an
exciting time both in the industry, but
it seems like you guys have a really uh
interesting opportunity here in front of
you. I mean, I feel like it's probably
the most exciting time to be in
technology in the in the history of
humanity, which I feel grateful for. I
think specifically with what we're
working with, it's become just very very
clear that every AI company is going to
need conversations as a fundamental data
set to feed their AI. Um, there's five
times more words spoken at work every
year than all the words on the entire
internet. And if you think about any
company, 99% of all the context in that
company never gets written down. It's
not in the docs. It's not in the issue
tracker. It's in conversation from
person to person. And AI needs that
context to be effective. And what we're
seeing is every AI company is tapping
into conversations as a source of data.
So we're working with now over a
thousand companies in a wide variety of
industries that are using this data to
feed their models. And what's next for
us is really expanding the surface area
of the data we help people capture and
expanding the ways we help them work
with that data. So one of the new
products we launched is a desktop
recording SDK. So today we have a
product that lets you send a bot into a
meeting. Uh we have a new product that
lets you record meetings and
conversations without a bot. So, it's
just a software package that you can
integrate into a desktop app. It pulls
the data from meetings happening on the
person's computer. It can record
meetings that that are happening
ambiently in the room if you're doing
inerson meetings. And this unlocks a
whole new source of data for our
customers. We're going to be building
phone call recording as well, uh mobile
recording, uh being able to store the
data, query it, pre-process it. uh
whenever you're working with
conversation data, there's this huge
amount of infrastructure that's attached
to it and these SAS companies and AI
companies shouldn't be building their
this infrastructure. They should be
focusing on the parts of their product
that make them unique, that help them
win in the market.
>> Absolutely. It's it's easy, I think, for
um people that don't really understand
what you're doing to think of you as
like a note-taking, you know, company,
infrastructure company, but it's so much
more than that. It's you're really this
fundamental AI data layer that gives the
context on all these conversations that
is going to be required by every company
of the future that wants to build
anything meaningful. Like if you have a
new employee join your company, right?
It's not like they can read all of the
documentation and then be fully
effective. They have to spend three
months talking to people.
>> And AI is the same way. The AI can't
just read all your docs and become
effective. It needs to know all of the
context passing human to human because
that's where all the information inside
an organization is actually stored.
>> Absolutely. And you just raised a large
round to go after this and and keep
expanding. Talk a little bit about um
you're hiring now. What roles are you
looking for? And um you said a little
bit about it earlier, but what types of
people are you looking for to come and
join the team?
>> We are hiring across basically every
role. So engineering, marketing, sales,
product. The core of what we're looking
for is high agency people uh and people
who see working as a startup as an
opportunity to push themselves and
accomplish something great. I think
we're in a really unique position where
we're the fundamental infrastructure
layer for this new wave of AI companies
that's freeing up. Uh it means that we
get to see a lot of the market. It means
we get to see a lot of the advances 6
months 9 months before they uh get
publicly released. Uh it also means the
standards uh are super high. We are
critical infrastructure for companies
that are 10, 100 or a thousand times
larger than us by headcounter by
revenue. So it's a really intense uh
sort of responsibility to have as a
company. Um but I think the outcome of
that is it's a place where we can do
really great work and it's a place where
we can be a fundamental contributor to
the next generation of software. So,
what would your advice be to founders
that are just starting out now based on
your experience?
>> My advice would be don't give up.
It's interesting and nuanced advice
because
I think the first layer of it is well,
if you give up, you can't succeed. That
one's obvious, but I think the layer
underneath is that what I experienced is
that when I first started a company, I
was doing 20 things wrong. And to see
success, you have to do all of these
things right. And it just takes time to
learn about your space, to build your
skills, uh to meet people, to develop
connections, to understand all of these
things. It takes time to be at a place
where you can run a very successful and
fast growing company. I think lots of
people give up before they get there. So
my advice would be don't give up. Uh
stick through it. And one adjacent piece
to that is uh I think it takes maybe at
least a year to know whether a product
is going to be successful or not. And
this is something that I didn't expect.
Uh I thought that you'd build a product,
you'd launch it into the market and then
3 months later you'd know is this thing
going to succeed or not. Um but I think
after what I've experienced, it takes at
least a year.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. You know, when I
first uh started working here at YC, uh
I used to think if founders hadn't
figured it out and it wasn't on this
crazy trajectory by demo day, like man,
they were in trouble. And I've since
learned that that's actually the very
rare thing. And the much more common
thing is that it actually takes, you
know, one to two years, sometimes even
longer after the batch
>> to really get things working. And it's
just a lot of lead bullets every single
day, one foot in front of the other and
sticking with it, you know, to your
point to figure it out. And I think your
story has embodied that. David, thank
you for joining.
>> Thank you, Erin. It's been great being
here.
[Music]