Video ID: KmdN6OQ_PwE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmdN6OQ_PwE
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1152
============================================================

[music]
Today I'm here with Verun and Esher,
co-founders of Giger. Giger builds AI
agents for customer support and are used
by some of the largest companies in the
world like Door Dash to handle millions
of customer support calls. Verun is
thanks so much for joining us.
>> Thanks.
>> Thanks. Thanks for having us here.
>> This is a very competitive space, AI
agents for customer support. Um, there's
obviously very well-known and wellunded
companies in the space like Sierra. So
how has Giga um been able to stand out u
and get an amazing customer like Door
Dash?
>> Firstly starting off with like Door Dash
is a extremely meritocratic company and
that's one of the massive volumes where
we had to compete against like 20 plus
vendors uh to win a logo like that. The
fundamental approach which
differentiated us from vendors like CR
is we build product and they took a
basically more of like a consultative
palentry type approach which takes a lot
of time to go live. If you consider Doda
scale hundreds of millions of calls
where if you say to build use case by
use case it takes months to get it to
solve the entire thing. For us we
primarily built a product which makes it
very very easier for them to go live for
example compared to other vendors where
we piloted it took them couple of months
to go live. We went live in a week
that's how fast it is and that's one of
the major reasons and I can add more
along the complexity side of parts.
Yeah, just just you know like just so
you know the although like customer
support seems like you know fairly easy
use case to solve uh but for companies
at a scale of Door Dash who have
millions of calls there are decent
percentage or even like tens of
percentage of calls where they are
extremely complex where you have to
coordinate with like multiple parties
over a real-time call and that is
something none of the other products
seem to have like they didn't seem to
support it and we were the only ones who
built the product in a way which is very
general and can also solve extreme
extremely complex use cases at scale. We
are live with some of these use cases
right now. Um so majorly it's just like
a purely product play.
>> Many other AI companies take this sort
of forward deployed engineer consulting
approach um where they're almost
building some amount of like custom
software per customer to get it working.
But you've been able to build something
that mostly worked out of the box even
for Door Dash's scale.
>> Yes. I think that we have a rule within
our company for the product team. It's
like you don't build anything custom for
any customer. Everything has to be a
part of the core product. So you build
something for Doash, every single other
customer should be able to use the same
product feature. So when we get like
very complex use cases for some of these
customers, we don't build it out
separately. We just figure out how can
we scale our product to support this
much more complex use case. Now every
one of our customers can also use the
same feature for their more complex
products as well. The reason I feel like
most companies take the palenteer for
deployed engineer model approach is
because it's essentially too hard to do
that.
>> There's so much like custom work you
need to do per customer to get the AI
working consistently like 100% of the
time. Um, how have you been able to
solve that challenge? How are you
actually able to have a product that
generalizes across the enterprise?
>> So, this is a bet we took a few I would
say like pretty much like 8 to 9 months
ago. Um this is something like I think
very other few companies actually do it.
So Python and programming is the
fundamental way to build anything you
want. And one of the approaches we took
is that Python is a first party member
within our product in the sense that you
can write Python within the product to
do stuff. And the bet we took was AI is
going to write so much code down the
line. AI is going to get so good at
writing code you don't really need to
write that much code yourself. And
that's paying off like im immensely for
us right now because someone from
operations team on door dash can come in
talk to our AI and write code
effectively themselves and they just
need to put in the business outcomes and
then AI is going to write code for them
and build like a very very complex use
case without like much involvement from
engineers. And since you can write
Python within the product, obviously
there are like very good primitives on
where can you write, where can you not
write, where can you inject custom
Python code. Since the primitive is like
literally Python, it makes our product
by default extremely general. And it
makes it very easy for us to add new use
cases because we just need to develop
protocols on top of these.
>> Okay. So that's interesting. So it's
almost like the forward deployed engine
model is basically there's business
logic that lives in the head of the
customer's ops team or whoever they have
to
>> translate
>> translate it's basically the four
deployed engineers role is to like
translate that business logic into code
but you've actually just got AI doing it
and so it's like the business logic is
natural English they they're typing it
into your system and your system is
turning it into Python code that makes
sure that the underlying product works
perfectly for each enterprise customer.
>> Exactly. And it may not be Python as
well. We convert like for Doash, we
convert tens of thousands of lines of
JSON files, their internal JSON files
into actual natural language,
interpretable instructions and also
Python code based on like their stuff.
So it's majorly like we optimized it to
an extent where even the FD part of a
sales process is done by an AI. So it's
part of our product instead of like a
human actually doing it.
>> You do have a forward deployed engineer.
It's just sort of like an AI forward
deployed engineer versus a human one.
>> Yes. That's fascinating. And you were
working on even as I understand it even
when you were at IIT as undergrads you
were working on finetuning of LLMs.
>> Warun did like research internship at
Stanford for training these like LLMs
back when like even charges pre-charge
launching right.
>> Yeah it's a it's like it's not
transformer is not not really a lot but
yeah roughly. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think like you know our
experience has majorly been around like
fine-tuning these massive models like we
were the first people to extend Llama to
context length from 4 to 32K. we
outperform cloud 2 and everything that
immensely helps us because we know
exactly what AI can do and where it's
going to not where it's going to like
you know just blow up and we will only
automate the parts where we know AI can
do really well and especially when when
there are some of our products which are
extremely token intensive and that's
where you need to optimize for per token
cost and that's where like you know all
of our previous experience also helps
immensely for getting maximum per per
let's say dollar
>> so going back to the door dash contract.
So the speed in sales matters a lot. So
it sounds like a big part of the reason
you're able to win a huge contract like
that is your time to show them the
product worked was a week versus months.
>> That's definitely one of the ma massive
reasons. Other bio reason is just
complexity of the use cases that one
thing which I want to say is I mean this
is a very common use case in door dash
which happens a lot which no other
vendor in the market was able to solve
which is let's say if we are here at YC
office we ordered food and you went to
your home and it it happens a lot people
order food with like office address at
home and home address in office because
they just keep switching and you ask the
dasher saying that hey can you deliver
it to my home because I'm at home it's
on the way a lot of times dasher being
the nice people they deliver it to your
home and then they won't be able to
market as delivered because it will be
triggered by their fraud system because
they're outside the geoence
>> because they're not at the office,
right? So then they make an outbound
call to our AI agent asking, "Hey, uh,
can you mark the order as delivered?"
This is our AI talking to them. Firstly,
our agent does this. We we check a chat
history between you, the customer, and
Dasher to see if you actually requested
the address change. If not, while the
dash is in the call with our AA agent,
we make an outbound call to the customer
in parallel. They're like right now
there are two calls running and we ask
you hey Hajj the dash is saying that he
requested a new address did you actually
request it yes or no once you say yes we
go back and mark the order as delivered
for the dasher this this is a one
multi-party communication and we it's
live right now in do dash so these are
some of the complex use cases which we
solve that's one of the that's one of
the primary reasons that we are able to
win over a company like do dash it's
primarily ability to solve very complex
use cases which stems from ability to
write Python Yeah, it's like you know s
I think like when we were starting the
pilot they gave us this use case I
remember looking at it I was like oh wow
this is so interesting um and then
initially like our product was able to
do it to a decent extent but there was
not like really very strong I wouldn't
say like it would not be like the best
experience but we changed our product a
little bit and there's like a new
protocol where you can make outbound
calls from within a single agent so
basically like a sub agent if you think
and then like you know the experience
becomes comes much more much more better
and then like we are the only one who
can do it like at such scale
>> in this case the the complexity in that
example is that you've essentially got
you like a sub agent or two calls
happening in parallel and they both need
context on the what's happening on in
each call
>> pretty much it's like you know h like
did you actually receive your burrito
you order to IC's office because the
dash is claiming that he delivered it to
your home is that actually true
>> and how does it work like so once if you
call me and you verify that I actually
wanted the burrito delivered there. Then
once that call's completed, it tells the
other agent that's on the other call
that what happened. And then that agent
knows to tell the dasher, hey, this is
totally fine.
>> And actually marks the order as
delivered. Yeah.
>> And then the the funny part here is like
previously, yes, humans used to do it.
It was a worse experience with humans
because humans cannot stay on call with
two people at the same time. Now like
while we are on a call with the
customer, the dasher can still talk to
the AI. They can still ask about their
pay. Previously, humans were like,
"Okay, I'm going to put you on hold. let
me talk to the customer and then put the
customer on hold, talk to the dasher.
Yeah. So, it's basically a better
experience.
>> This is I'm smiling because this is sort
of like the u it's like the enterprise
customer support version of her than
>> maybe. Yeah. [laughter]
Like the same agent talking to all these
people at the same time. Are there any
other ways in which the AI agents are
actually better at customer support than
human agents would be?
>> Yeah, the first thought pointing is like
we all hate hold times. I mean like I
remember we have been hold for six hours
for IRS which is like nuts. If it is 6
hours I mean yeah firstly hold times go
away that's like the biggest thing for
all the thing all the agents and the
second thing is like resolution times
are like much faster you get to the
resolution faster it's again saving you
a lot of time multilingual is a very
major thing for a company like u do dash
and understanding multiple accents
multilingual with multiple accents is
very very tricky because a lot of even
people with not native language try to
speak in very broken English now you got
to understand the entire thing I mean
Yeah, that's uh those are some of the
major benefits that we saw which is uh
fundamentally like the seesat also went
like significantly up for the for the
dashers. Yeah.
>> Okay. So now you've raised this huge
series A um why did you raise the round
right now and what do you plan to do
with the money?
>> Yeah, it's primarily to just deal with
our demand. We have like a lot of
customers on the pipeline and a lot of
massive fortune 500 companies that are
piloting with us and we need just need
to serve them and deliver like high
quality experience for all of their
customers as well. That means we need to
hire faster and scale faster.
>> You actually have one probably the
strongest sales pipeline of any startup
I've seen. Um how has that happened?
>> Firstly, our contracts as you know like
very massive compared to like a lot of
startups of our scale and that means
that we generally tap to like sea level
decision maker once they like the
product really really well. It generally
like cross travels a lot and they refer
it to the other sea level expects who
are friends. So I mean if it's is
fortune 2000 how many people there
should be like 2,000 people if you
hypothetically think of every 1% of us
to 10 people it should be like pretty
easier for you to like get a warm
network to all the intros. I think
that's the primary reason I mean ours is
a very I mean if you think of AI in
general the only impact it can make is
like customer support or coding or the
real use cases which we are seeing in
the market and we are becoming like sort
of like board's answer to like what's AI
strategy in this company and Giga is
becoming one of answers. I think that's
the reason which we have like a stronger
pipeline to add anything else
>> and I think like you know obviously
getting into the door is one thing but
once you go there and talk to these
people who are like sea level execs they
are obviously very curious about the
product and the results we have like you
know delivered for Door Dash and also
like you know the the innovation we have
on the product even though they're not
very technical people just talking to
them about it gets them so excited okay
this is this is going to transform my
business and that's the excitement we
see and that's how we just like push get
pushed up. Yeah, I think you guys are
just the the epitome of what's really
unique about AI startups right now is
that by having the technical expertise
that you do, you're able to build the
product that actually works. And just
the product that works um is enough to
get a giant company like Door Dash as a
customer and then that's going to spread
via word of mouth and open up all these
other Fortune 500 companies that want to
work with you. And I just don't I think
that was very hard to do in the past
because most people could get the
product to work reasonably well or at
least well enough to close the sale. Um
uh but now we're in this new era where
if you don't have the skills technical
skills that you two have as founders,
you actually just can't get the products
to work.
>> It's definitely mix of market plus great
product. I would say as you know all the
companies are thinking what AI that they
need to do and customer support is one
of the massive things of them. Yeah. Why
do you think customer support has taken
off and become such a competitive space?
As you know like you know currently AI
models like you know the recent ones
they can get gold medals in IMO they can
get like gold medals in IOI and the
biggest challenging part there is like
you know just the context let's say an
model can get like gold medals in IMO
why cannot it do like the job of a
manager in an enterprise the biggest
reason is it doesn't know everything the
manager knows but if you think about
like programming and customer support as
verticals a customer opens up a chat
with you or some conversation with you
you'll learn everything about the
customer in context and you will solve
it. So the context scope is fairly
narrow for customer support and coding.
Coding is also kind of similar. You
learn, you look at all the files, you
threes and then you come up with an
approach. Obviously like AI is here to
just make people more productive and
optimize a lot of these enterprise
processes. Customer support and
programming according to us at least is
are the ones with like which are really
fit well to deal with the current
context limitations of the current LMS.
Um and it's just going to get like you
know as context gets better and
everything these models are going to do
everything.
>> Yeah. And people try I mean right now
people are like even trying to
proactively give more context as well
even that also like solves the solves
the issue and more and more use cases
get unlocked but customer support is
definitely one of the
>> yeah customer support is like in that
sweet spot where yes you need to know a
lot of the policies and everything. Yes,
you need to know a lot of the customers
but it's not like too much the people
people problems and things like that.
It's not just too much for the LLM to
just get confused about.
>> Yeah. The reason we're to spend so much
time on just like the product and the AI
for deployed engineer stuff, this is
going to be gold that like the
especially the audience that watches
this stuff is very very deeply
interested in this kind of stuff and
we've spoken so much on our content
about like the four deployed engineer
model and there's so much interest in
that. So AI for deployed engineer is the
first like I don't think anyone's ever
heard that before.
>> Yeah. It's like if you're building an AI
product, you need to build your own FD.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. you guys basically this is going
to position you as like at the cutting
edge like it's basically like everyone
else is sort of doing the human for
deployed engineer part and you're
already like leaps and bounds ahead
because it's the AI is doing the full
deployed engineer part. So Giger is 20
people today um and you're going to be
hiring aggressively. How do you think
about the culture you want to build as
the team grows? I want to start off with
saying that not everyone is fit to join
us. Um, and the people we hire, they
need to be like extremely smart and very
mission aligned. And as an engineer,
like how I would like put the role as in
in our company is that we are one of the
only companies or we are one of the few
companies where you can have direct
impact on potentially like billions of
people if you join us. We are here to
transform like you know B2C enterprises
to a massive degree and it can it it's
starting through customer support. We're
going to expand into other verticals. We
will transform a lot of these
experiences a lot of consumers have with
these B2C companies and the direct
impact let's say we go live with one of
the big like fortune 500s which have
like billions of customers and we
automate support for it you are
basically making the experience better
for billions of people and that's one of
the ways like you know they need to be
very impactdriven they need to have the
drive to make a lot of these experiences
really really good. Yeah, it's it's
primarily a little bit of like a very
high agency and very raw IQ is what I
would put at it. And right we have like
some of the amazing people who are
joining us. We have literally convinced
a guy to not join open a and anthropic
who were paying us like ridiculously
high amount than us to join Giga.
>> So as a startup even one that's growing
as quickly as you are. Um how do you
convince people to join you instead of
joining meta or open AAI and the giant
amount of money that they pay? It's
primarily directly because the amount of
impact see the by the way this was a
back end engineer and one front end
engineer who are like getting competed
by had a both competing offers the thing
was the impact that he's going to make
on any of these companies I mean opening
is a massive company it's not a small
company anymore and the impact he can
have at Giga can the code literally
which he writes can be transformed to
hundreds of millions of people
potentially every customer of Door Dash
will get a sim or like any one of these
massive customers who work with us will
get get the direct impact. A lot of
people who are not motivated by money,
who want their work to be used by a lot
of people get motivated uh to join gig
again but this is also not going to last
to us if you become thousand people but
again right now is a sweet spot where
you build something which impacts a lot
of people. Our primary mission of the
company is to build a world towards
perfect execution and we'll try to
optimize every single thing in this
massive enterprises and try try to
optimize every process and every
operation process and make it more and
more efficient and execution driven. Uh
that's one of the biggest missions and
we will so we're starting with support
and we'll go to every single opex heavy
thing in these massive companies and
we'll try to optimize it.
>> So you think you'll go beyond um
customer support at some point? We're
already like customers are literally
like asking us to like uh it goes
something like this right some big of
what are the biggest OPEX things in the
company uh support where they have like
a lot of uh hundreds of thousands of
people and then there's compliance
there's like a bunch of other things in
the in these companies and they're
literally asking us can you guys since
you're doing this can you also do this
so we're already seeing a lot of
interest uh in in these things and what
one more interesting category of people
which we have seen work out for Giga
very very well are former founders who
just wants to have high agency and a lot
of impact. We already have these
customers. We are already running pilots
with them. We can they can work and
directly work with the end customer and
build a massive impact. That's one more
category where we are seeing a lot of
success who are of the people who are
being really successful in giga former
founders.
>> How about we talk about the two of you a
little bit actually I'm curious about um
tell us a little bit about your founding
story like how did you two meet each
other um decide to start a company
together and give us the origin story.
So we both know each other since like
2019 when we both went to IIT Karakpur.
Um and then like Vun is like really
passionate about startups. I think like
since he was like six or seven and then
he has been reading program essays, Elon
Musk essays and all of that. [snorts] Um
and then he has been trying to do a lot
of startups during the college and then
we eventually applied to YC in 2023 and
you were our interviewee.
>> Yeah, you applied with a completely
different idea. [laughter]
>> Applied with an Yeah, you should tell us
about the idea. Oh, our idea was to
build an education platform for college
students in India to get jobs and that
was the idea we applied with and I think
you know this as well like you know when
we came into the interview your entire
questions were like oh can you vun you
have this experience here can you talk
about like what other companies can you
build from this experience and then we
we were like so surprised we were like
okay
>> I mean I I rehearsed for this interview
so much I mean like there are like 10 YC
founders who interviewed interviewed me
and I mean I know answers to all the
questions which is like why this what's
the big time and everything and you come
to the interview and you ask for a
completely different question which is
like a [laughter] pick a new idea and I
was like what and it's it's a
>> and then and then our thought process
was like okay VC likes people who are
very gritty so we should stick with the
idea we came in [laughter] with we're
like no h like yes there are other ideas
but we'll do this and then I think like
one of the questions you asked was oh if
we don't if y doesn't take you are you
going to keep doing your company and
then We said yes but I think you knew we
[laughter] knew we wouldn't have done
it.
>> Um yeah I think Y is one of the reasons
like we even exist at this point in time
>> is honestly like kudos to you for just
taking a bet on us. Uh I don't I mean it
we got into this instance stage I mean
like we had uh we both had like a high
frequency trading offers paying us more
than 600k out of college and [laughter]
I applied to a bunch of IV leagues and I
got into all of them and at that point
of time YC was always this like
northstar who one company who I mean I
thought that YC was one of those things
which creates this massive generation of
companies.
>> Yeah that was always something that
stood out for me. I was always curious
about this. you don't think it'll last
as you. But yeah, like I mean I feel
like turning down quant jobs if you're
in in America and you grew up in America
is sort of like one level of risk to do
a startup but like being growing up in
India and like turning down like super
high paying jobs offers like must just
be how did you think about the risk of
doing that and were your friends and
family supportive of it?
>> India is like generally like not a
risk-taking. There's like very low risk
>> and friends don't like their friends
outgrowing them typically. So it's it's
always tricky. My dad thought literally
I was like crazy. I mean
>> I mean maybe he was he was right
probably. Yeah.
>> I mean like I mean I clearly remember I
got like this highest paying job out of
ever out of all I this high trading firm
is paying me this much amount of
>> because you guys had some of the highest
ranking scores at IIT. Right.
>> He he not me. [laughter]
>> Where did you rank at IIT?
>> I was like third in in KGP Karapur. Um
but I mean the reason we decided to do a
startup I think like for War Vun it was
majorly around like passion and he's
like okay I just want to do this like
even if I go to like you know let's say
this HFTs I'm still going to want to do
a company I will do it like regardless
of what I want to do. For me it was more
along the lines of like I was just
logically convinced that okay just doing
a company than working at like let's say
these HFTs for 3 years is still a better
outcome for me even if I fail uh by
going into IC. That was just like a
logical conclusion I came to. I was
like, "Okay, sounds good. Let's actually
give it a shot." And then, yeah,
>> for me to be honest, it was just doing
the hardest thing possible. I mean, it
translates to a lot of our company
culture as well, just picking up the
hardest problem and solve it. I thought
genuinely like a lot of rich people and
powerful people build their own
business. So I thought I wanted to do
something along those lines and I
thought it was super hard and yeah
>> it's kind of surprising because this
aspect of okay we want to pick the
hardest problems to solve kind of
translates so well because we go into
these sales calls and then we talk to
these let's say sea level people a lot
of the other competitors generally ask
them okay what's the biggest chunk of
support problems we can solve how can we
get you to 70%. We don't do that. We go
them and ask them what's the most
complex issue you have. Let me go and
solve that for you. And then you trust
me to take over the rest of the entire
support ticket. And I mean this is my
personal metric to build a product. I
want to get every single one of my
customers to 98% resolution. And not
because I believe it's a very good like
ROI. Yes, it is a good ROI, but I
genuinely believe like you know it's a
better experience for the end customers
to get like an AI which can solve 98% of
your issues. The biggest reasons humans
still say like agent a human human this
is like classic behavior we see is
because there is no trust there is no
trust that AI can actually solve
majority of the problems but if you
build an AI which can solve 98% of the
problems why would they not like you
know talk to it
>> to me it's just like the the area to
build a startup now is different feels
different post chat GBT than before and
in particular it's just there is a real
return to being a deeply technical
founder um and you can just build your
company a different way like going in I
think it's going in and being like,
"Give us your like building your whole
sales process around just give us your
most complicated like
>> and then I'm going to show it to you
that we can do it." [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I remember so I remember the
interview. I remember you guys being
very stubbornly attached to your like
college student idea. Um talk us through
like actually um going through YC and
you even had like difficulties getting
into the country like just tell us the
whole journey.
>> No uh first I was more curious on why
did you take us in?
>> The core thing we do is just invest in
people. So it was very very clear to me
even in the 10 minutes and from reading
the application that two of you like
extremely high IQ um uh extremely
determined um that yeah the fact that
you were you had mentioned that you were
turning down the HT offers and you were
turning down actually I was impressed by
the fact that you were even willing to
turn down um your research offer from
Stanford um so in general a lot we do at
YC is try and find people who are like
unusual compared to their peers and so
the fact that you are like IIT and yes
I'm not I wasn't born in India but my
parents from India and I just know
culturally it's so risk averse that I
was like, wow, like if they are willing
to take this amount of risk, they're
probably quite unusual people. And in
the 10-minute interview, it was clear
just that not just that you were smart,
but you just had a certain intensity
about you. And yeah, one thing I've
learned doing this for a while is there
sort of yes, like I didn't like the
idea. It was probably not very obvious.
Um, and it is a bit of a high-risisk
strategy to keep defending the idea
anyway, but I [laughter]
but I don't know. I' I've learned that
if you're sort of if you're just smart
and intense enough like I think those
people actually are always just sort of
stubbly attached to the idea. Um this is
actually it reminded me a lot of the
Amplitude interview. Amplitude is now a
public company doing analytics and this
is like a decade ago. Spencer Skates the
founder of that company also really
really high IQ very intense person. He
had an idea to build like a um voice
assistant for you while you were driving
but this is like 12 that yeah wasn't
really possible. Um, but he just
defended it so intensely. I remember the
interview thinking like anyone who's
this smart and this intense, you just
sort of have to invest in and work with
them. And it took them like a year and a
half to find like the amplitude idea and
it took you guys like a little bit of
time as well. But I just that intensity
I think is quite rare. That's why that's
why we funded you.
>> Yeah. Uh, coming to the YC thing. Uh,
yeah. We thought it would be so easy to
get into US to be honest that we go
there. [laughter]
>> No. in the interview. I think when you
gave us the offer, you were like, "Okay,
when can you show up in like, you know,
in the US?" You were like, "Okay, we'll
be there in a week." And then and then
you were like, "Okay, are you sure you
can be there in a week?" We were like,
"Yes." And then actually like we could
have gotten there gotten here in a week.
We did have like a visa interview
scheduled. And then we went to the visa
interview like the I think like the
entire B1 B2 visa system is like kind of
like, you know, it needs a clean up. But
we went there, they asked us like, "Hey,
are you married? Do you have kids?" We
were like, "No." And they were like,
"Okay, you're rejected." We were like,
"What?" And then we come back.
>> Your your interview was at least like a
little longer. Mine was like just three
questions. Married, salary, how much is
your salary? I was like, "I have my own
company." And I was trying to explain
what Y is to that guy. And he was like,
"No, it's done."
>> For a minute, I was just like I did not
even realize that people can reject you
on a visa interview. Oh yeah.
>> I was like, "What's happening with my
life? It's just u
>> Yeah, I remember. So then cuz this was
for the summer 23 batch and so then we
basic you had to do the batch remote
essentially, right? So I didn't actually
meet you in person um probably
>> until like January 2021.
>> So it's kind which is getting close to
like almost close to a year since um the
the first interview probably like 9 to
10 months after the interview.
>> The instant crazy thing was everything
became harder, right? I mean we don't
know what our peers were working on and
it's it's we I mean it's it's our first
time trying it out as well. Then we put
it to finetuning and we picked a really
vertical where we can nail it. that
definitely by on that note it definitely
felt to me like the you getting here
being Silicon Valley and being here at
YC in person definitely really helped
accelerate the process of finding like
the new idea right
>> a lot and a lot to be honest it's
extremely helpful because I mean I
remember back in I was India this was
again thanks to Gary Tan that reason the
fundrise happened right I mean I I was
asking my peers how much money they were
like raising and they're like there like
60 interviews scheduled for everybody I
remember asking I was like how I have
only eight eight investors am I doing
anything wrong
>> this is for you dem day fund raise.
>> This is where demo day fundra and you
were like no no just go with it go with
the flow and everything and almost
surprisingly almost all of them end up
investing and Gary Tan told from our
seed investor from uh Nexus you must
invest in giga and they took a bet on us
and it's a I mean that really that fun
really helped us a lot because we're
back in India and it's
>> yeah I think like just having zero peers
and then like we both are like okay we
just quit everything and then now now we
are stuck in India we want to be there
And then we don't even have like
especially with the education YC really
helped us because you connected us with
a lot of people in education education
and you were like you were like pretty
determined to get us off of that idea
[laughter]
>> and then and then we spoke to a few
people we were like okay yeah that
doesn't make sense let's pick something
where we are good at we picked like
fine-tuning and then they inference that
vertical and then yeah it's majorly
because of Gary I think our seed got
done pretty much
>> I remember so like the timeline was
basically you applied with the student
idea you pivoted into the finetuning as
a service idea like
>> in a in a month
>> in a month. Yeah. So hitting almost the
midpoint of the batch and then you
raised at demo day on the fine-tuning as
a service idea.
>> Um which actually I remember it got
pretty decent traction like early on.
What exactly happened to that idea?
>> Okay, so for some context, we were
basically training these open source
models, fine-tuning them for specific
use cases to get really good performance
outperform like let's say cloud or GBT4
or whatnot. And then back then GBT4 was
the only real smart model and it was
like crazy expensive. If you remember
the prices it's like $32 $32 for million
tokens or something. It had a good
traction because people were optimizing
for cost and we were like okay it's good
it's good. People want to optimize for
cost and then we're going to train these
models and you can use our inference and
then we had like decent revenue as well.
And the biggest issue with that idea was
it was like a broken funnel. people
would come in yes they would be happy
like it's nothing wrong with the product
but then open AI or anthropic like you
know they just released a new model
which is like let's say as smart as GPT4
but like let's say 10 10 times cheaper
which actually happened with like GPT40
it was like I think four times cheaper
and then we saw our customers they were
like okay we want to move to OpenAI now
because this new model can do this new
other things and our fine tuned model
was trained for this use case we had to
retrain it and then it was just a lot of
like you know continuous iteration we
had to do to keep up. And it felt like
we were kind of betting against the AI
wave than betting into the AI wave. It's
like, okay, if OpenAI stopped making
better models, we would be doing really
well. If OpenA continuously made better
models and cheaper models, we would be
doing worse. So that realization we got,
I think in February or March 2024, we
were like, okay, we don't want to bet
against AI, let's just go into something
where we bet on AI.
>> Okay. Um and then how did you come up
with the idea for Giga?
>> We were pivoting and trying out like a
bunch of different ideas and one of the
some of the thing we're at that point
we're trying to even build a software
engineer. So we're we're definitely like
jumping on like a lot of ideas again
Nexus might introduce Zeppto founders
and they told that customer and that's
when we got to know that like customer
support is like one of the real problems
and they became one of the first
customers. So you got you were
introduced to Zeppto and you just went
to talk to him in general about hey like
what are your problems using AI?
>> Yeah we tried like a little bit of
hypothesis I think there was one of our
mutual friends who again another YC
founder who worked at Uber to automate
their support and they were saying
talking about support problems just made
a hypothesis Zeppto might also have
similar problems.
>> It was a shot in the dark and [snorts]
it kind of worked. Yeah, we we spoke
with them and then like you know they
were like okay there's this huge event
coming up in India we need to hire a lot
of people we if we can help use AI to
automate support it would be massive
help because we don't have to hire like
what 2,000 people or something um and
then we were like okay this is the first
application problem so we flew to India
we were in SF flew to India we went in
we went and sat in their call centers
for like you know days and then observed
how they support people do this work and
then the solution we built was like so
custom, so random. It's like they didn't
have API. So we built like a web
automation solution on their CRM which
was very hard to scale but we scaled it
anyways and then it was like a very
custom solution for Zeppto. We built out
>> and that sort of laid the foundation for
the product as you have today.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. At that point of time we realized
that we are not going to do consulting
again.
>> Yes. Oh yeah. No, we were like okay this
is no way going to scale and then that
was where we got our determination like
we have to build a product. there is no
way we can scale this because and then
it was a very interesting product
challenge as well like we knew all the
kind of support problems Zeppto had and
we knew all the kind of support problems
for a few other companies and now the
problem was how do you build something
the in the most simplest way which can
solve all of these different problems um
that was basically the product problem
we had to solve. Okay. So, if we look
ahead to the future a little bit, um I
mean you guys right at the cutting edge
like you're you're operating at your
agents operate at like probably like the
largest scale of any agents in the
customer support space. Um where do you
see this space evolving of AI agents in
the enterprise in general and especially
as the models themselves get more
powerful?
>> This is the bet we are also making. Um
data and context are the are the most
important things and AI gets better the
companies with the most context and data
would be able to perform the best. Even
if like open a had a much smarter model
but it does if it doesn't have the
context it cannot do much within an
enterprise and that's where we are
heading as well. We start with customer
support. We provide a lot of value to
our customers. That sets us up to win a
lot of these other operations within
these enterprises. And the vision of our
company is like you know this is this is
maybe like you know a decade away
potentially but we want to build a
platform where the next trillion dollar
businesses are built on top of and we
want to build the most efficient op ops
automation platform in the world and we
think we are like you know very well
positioned because customer support is
one thing people are looking to automate
right now and next things would be like
you know something much which involve
more context and since you already solve
support you have like all the context
about potentially any kind of issue
customers might face that will make you
make better judgments in other verticals
within the company. Um so that's where
we think like the market is heading
towards like you know potentially
consolidation rather than like you know
point solutions for each of these AI
verticals.
>> Since we have context from every single
customer and what the past interactions
and what are they looking you like both
like very micro and macro level view of
what's what all the customers are asking
it helps us solve other customers other
issues in the company very better.
>> Yes. It's like I mean fundamentally
every company is an optimization
function on top of like value you give
to your customers and if you understand
the value you give to your customers and
the issues they are facing you can write
that function in a really good way.
>> For Giger itself like when you think
about how big the company could be are
there are there existing big companies
that you look at that you you aspire to
either because of something they've done
and how they built the product or the
size of the company today.
>> I think we aspire parts of different
companies. So Salesforce I think we
really aspire like the way they built
the most general product and I mean
obviously like you know we don't like
the design of Salesforce but obviously
like they built the most general version
of CRM pretty much and open AI I think
they are always at the forefront
innovating and things like that. So
different parts of different companies
are something we aspire but I don't
think we are looking to be like oh we
want to be the next open AI or we want
to be the next Salesforce or something
like that. different parts of different
countries is like I mean anthropic for
some I think has a very very good taste
>> yeah taste and a lot of great talent
compared to open air right now who are
going to them yeah
>> verunisha that was fantastic thanks so
much for joining us that's all we have
time for today congratulations on the
round and I'm looking forward to seeing
giga continue to grow into a giant
company thanks
[music]