Video ID: L_UjKHUfN7E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_UjKHUfN7E
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 595
============================================================

being upfront. That was the most
turbulent point of my life. I would say
co-founder had left. I had 95% of the
people that believed in me in the last
business sort of vanished into thin air.
I had no personal money in the bank.
Like literally had a few grand and uh no
technical co-founder having to convince
investors that, you know, I had this in
the bag. And then on top of that, as if
that wasn't enough, my wife actually
became pregnant with our twins. Very
high risk. Actually, US health insurance
refused to cover us. And so, you know,
we were getting we had to get scanned
every week. We would get all these bills
in the mail for about 10k a pop. And
honestly, we were going to go bankrupt.
[music]
All right. I am excited to welcome Nick
from Sphere, fresh off of a $21 million
series A led by Andre Horowitz. Uh Nick,
thank you for joining.
>> Cheers. Thank you.
>> Maybe to start uh tell us a little bit
about uh what Sphere is and uh the
current state of the business.
>> Yeah, so Sphere is an AI powered global
tax compliance platform. We focus on a
particular type of tax which is indirect
tax. So sales tax in the US, VAT in
Europe, GST in uh place like India and
Australia. So we help companies like
Lovable, 11 Labs, Replet, Windsurf with
specifically getting registered at tax
authorities, um calculating tax at the
point of transaction, filing the right
tax returns and paying global tax
remittance. Um we just raised $21
million round led by Andre and Horowitz.
Uh and really the idea of that is just
to double down on the global
opportunity.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Things are going really
well now, but it wasn't always like
that.
>> No, it was not. And uh yeah, I think
it'd be really interesting to kind of go
back to the early days and maybe tell us
a little bit about um you applied to YC
with a different idea. Um you know,
maybe tell us your background, how you
came up with that idea and how you met
your co-founder.
>> So basically my background is in
finance. So I was at PWC uh McQuary,
which is an Australian bank um back in
the day. I ended up leaving, you know,
financial advisory because, you know,
was a bit lifeless. um really wanted to
build something and yeah I ended up
going and building a edtech marketplace
of all things. The story behind that is
I had a pretty lackluster MBA experience
thought I could build something better
and really what it was was a platform
that allowed industry experts to run
live courses with companies around the
world and uh I did that with a person
that I knew from back home in Australia.
Uh we had some mutual connections. I
will say we I largely didn't know him at
the time, but uh you know we started
working together um and we got into YC
uh and things went um pretty well in YC.
Uh we grew quite quickly. Uh we got to
about you know over the the year after
we finished YC we got to about a million
and a half in GMV. Uh we took about 20%
take rate. So we were making about 300k
uh ARR.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. And so I mean things were going
well and then uh you were growing but
then you made a decision actually to
pivot from that idea and so maybe from
the outside it seemed like things were
going well. You had revenue was growing
like substantial revenue a couple a few
hundred,000 and to ultimately make the
decision to pivot. Walk us through your
thought process there and why this
wasn't the business that you wanted to
spend the next 10 years working on.
>> Look the reason why we pivoted was quite
simple. We had made uh an assumption
around the business that turned out to
be false. Um, we basically thought that
we could push the creation of courses,
the content onto instructors. We could
productize it so that they can come onto
the platform, they can build their own
courses, and they could sell to these
companies. But the problem was when you
push that onto creators, they end they
tend to end up creating pretty terrible
content. And so you had to get very
involved in the creation of it. Um, it
basically ends up becoming a media
business and it's not very scalable. Um,
and I would say that in combination with
the fact that edtech is a very hard
market. Like edtech is hard to, you
know, make a really big business in. Um,
and we had talked to a lot of our
competitors when we c went through this
whole decision process. No one was
really making substantial revenue. And
so we sort of decided like this is not
going to be a$und00 million business.
And we didn't want to spend the next 10
years of our life on it. So we shut it
down.
>> And so what was that process like?
You've made the decision that you should
pivot. Um, did you have another idea in
mind or did that kind of start this
pivot journey of finding the right idea?
>> So, no, we did not have an idea in mind.
Um, and we went through what everyone
calls pivot hell. Um, and I would say
that we did it very poorly. Uh, at first
we basically gravitated to whatever was
hot at the time. And at the time, this
was when OpenAI had released Chat Dvt
and it was all the AI craze. And so we
thrashed about in different sort of um
ideas. We did AI agents for sales at one
point. We did AI generated integrations
which we did in design partnership with
another YC company. And the problem with
that is that basically you end up a
selling or going into spaces that you
know very little about and where you
don't know the customer. Um, and B, like
you know, none of the learnings
compound. You end up sort of starting
from scratch every time you thrash. And
so it's very hard to iterate and learn
and find something that's like that pain
point. It was only really actually until
my co-founder left because at the time
we were trying to find things that
overlapped in in interest areas. It's
only when my co-founder left that I
managed to solve those two things where
I was like, look, what do I know? I know
finance. So I'm going to focus in
finance. I'm going to talk only to CFOs.
And that's when things started to go
right because then the learnings
compounded. I was able to sort of
iterate on something that actually
solved their needs.
>> And talk about that a little bit. I I
remember um doing office hours with you
and kind of like a low point
>> for you. Your co-founder had decided to
leave.
>> You still had not figured out the right
idea to work on. Yeah,
>> you had some money in the bank from what
you had raised around demo day. But I
see a lot of founders in that position
and they're just like the cards are
stacked against me. I give up. I'm just
going to go get a job somewhere. Like
that was almost the easy thing for you
to do.
>> And I very spec I remember where I was
when I was talking to you and I remember
you were just like, "Yeah, I'm not
phased. I'm going to keep going with
this until I figure it out." And like I
don't have an idea. I don't have a
co-founder, but I'm going to figure this
out. Yeah.
>> And like perspective, what was that
moment like? And did you ever consider
going to get a job or anything like that
or how did you think through that time?
>> I will say like being upfront that was
the most turbulent point of my life. I
would say uh as you said co-founder had
left. Um I had 95% of the people that
believed in me in the last business sort
of vanished into thin air. I had no
personal money in the bank. like
literally had a few grand and uh no
technical co-founder having to convince
investors that you know I had this in
the bag and then on top of that as if
that wasn't enough uh my wife actually
became pregnant with twins and the thing
about these twins were they're actually
a very rare type of twin uh they're like
one in 80,000 twin pregnancies very high
risk actually thing is that like these
these twins are so rare in fact that um
our health, US health insurance refused
to cover us. And so, you know, we were
getting we had to get scanned every
week. We would get these uh checks in
the mail or these bills in the mail for
about 10k a pop. And honestly, we were
going to go bankrupt. And so we had to
leave the US uh and go to the UK where
my wife is a citizen to have these twins
and live in a Ronald McDonald charity
house that was in the hospital all the
while hiring engineers, uh building the
product, you know, ringing tax
authorities. Um and you know, I think it
was one of the most intense experiences
of my life. But I think what was
important was that to your question like
why did I sort of keep going? I think it
was two things. I think the first was
that um you know I wanted to prove to
the 95% that didn't believe in me that I
had this. I wanted to prove to the 5%
that did believe me and I wanted to
prove to myself that I could do it. And
the second thing is that I didn't have a
choice. Like I was in a corner with no
money um and only one way out and was to
fight my way out. And so that is just
the person that I am and and I guess
we're here today. That's something
that's always stood out to me about you
is that determination. And I've seen
people with lots of money and a lot
going for them decide to give up. And
then I've seen people, and you're the
first one that really comes to mind for
me, that have not much going for them
and a lot working against them. And the
thought of giving up and moving to
something else just never crosses their
mind.
>> Yeah. talk about, you know, going from
that and and finding the idea, you know,
that has eventually turned into sphere
and starting to kind of build momentum
and convincing yourself that like, oh,
actually, I think this is going to be
the thing that's ultimately going to
stick and ultimately going to work.
>> So, you know, while this is all
happening, yeah, I decided to revert
back to finance. You know, that's what I
knew. That's what I was good at. Those
are the people that I understood. Um and
so I had also interestingly had a very
painful experience in scholarite the the
last business the online edtech
marketplace where you know we ran into
quite a few sales tax VAT GST issues
because marketplaces have that problem
very acutely. You have to cover the
whole tax on the entire GMBB not just
your take rate. And so I think it was
the combination of you know that finance
background the problem that I had sort
of lived that made me sort of center on
this thesis or idea space of like how do
you help businesses expand across the
world by removing a lot of this crossber
compliance out of the equation. So it's
it's a broad statement, right? Like it
was a broad area. It could have mean it
could have meant a hund different
things. And so what I did is I was very
methodical on like how to find like a
solution or a pain point that was big
enough in that space. And it came in
stages like what I did first was okay I
had this thesis and I did 20 initial
calls and the calls were very uh I
treated it like a sales uh funnel where
I just reached out to a bunch of CFOs in
reputable SAS startups and that first 20
was all very discovery based. It was
like you know what are these areas that
you sort of have problems with when you
expand internationally and that allowed
me to sort of pattern match and what
came out of it was that yeah tax became
more and more of an issue and and so I
was seeing that across multiple
businesses. I then created a Figma
prototype around a couple of different
variations of what that could be. And
then I did the next 20 calls um
basically showing people that Figma
prototype and getting feedback on it and
iterating and every night just tweaking
the Figma prototype and they were high
fidelity as well. Like it almost felt
like it was a real product too. So I put
a lot of effort into that. And then the
last 20 it was like you know at the end
of that the second stage I sort of knew
that there was a a certain solution that
sort of had come out of this painoint
around crossber compliance and it was
clear that you know some of the existing
vendors weren't doing international well
um they were outsourcing it to
service-based providers and so the last
20 was about selling and it was
importantly like not YC companies it was
these SAS businesses that like I could
demo the Figma prototype to and the aim
of that was to get LOIs and I got five
LOIs out of those 20 calls. Um, and
that's what gave me conviction. I'd say
the key learning in all of that was
because I had focused in the finance
space and in this thesis area,
everything compounded and I could go
back to the first 20 to sort of run
those demos past them. And so like it
sort of avoided those issues I had with
the thrashing um which I talked about
earlier. Something that stands out to me
is that um you know the first ideas that
you were you know cycling through in
Pivot Hell were all just kind of like
random theoretical ideas that you had no
experience with and and here you just
kind of went back to what you knew
>> and that helped you get on the right
track. It wasn't the exact idea that you
started with but through the
conversations you were able to find it
but you came to this problem space
because it was both your background and
something that you had lived personally
with your prior product it sounds like.
>> Yeah 100%. I I think like it's so easy
for founders to go for the flashy thing
that is hot in the market, but those
areas tend to be like hyper competitive
and saturated. Whereas, you know, if you
go back to what you know, um, you know,
not only are you going to be able to tap
your network, but you're going to be
able to talk to that customer better,
you're going to be able to understand
like what they care about more. And
importantly, also, you've got to like
the person that you're sort of selling
to. Yeah, I I I've definitely felt that
even in building, you know, my own
company is, you know, when you're
focused on people that you don't want to
spend, you don't enjoy, you don't get
energy from like Yeah. being around
them, it's really hard. And when you
find that and you're you're solving
problems for people that you like deeply
care about. Everyone's always like,
"Yeah, I care about my customers." But
like when you deeply care about them,
you're you're really motivated to spend
more time with them.
>> Yeah. I think like for example, I told
you like one of the, you know, ideas we
looked at was AI agents for for sales
teams. I mean like that's sort of the
classic tarpit for many founders cuz
everyone's like oh you know I did a
startup and sales is really hard but
like do you actually care about selling
to sales people like are you a sales
person or was it just that yeah I mean
sales is hard and sure it would be great
to make it better but with me I think
like really that come to Jesus moment of
like I've just got to go back to like
what I know and what I'm comfortable
with and who I understand to a tea and I
think that was sort of the the unlock
for me.
>> Even beyond that, you know, you were
selling to really big logos and and big
customers before you had this fully kind
of polished product that could do all
the things that they want. Um, talk
about your thought process in selling it
ahead of the product actually being, you
know, fully built.
>> It was very important to me that I sold
before I built. So, remember, I didn't
have a technical co-ounder, so I didn't
really have a choice here. And so um you
know I was very much doing that before I
even had any engineering talent on
board. And I will say off that Figma
prototype I talked about lois before but
we sold our first 10 contracts like the
proper you know binding contracts off
that Figma prototype. It stopped when I
got absolutely rinsed by a CFO who said
I'm not buying from someone who's um
who's selling to me off a Figma
prototype. So that it got to a point
where it was too much. But my point is
that like if the idea is good enough,
you should be able to sell off a Figma
prototype. And the way that we sold into
these big logos early on, there was sort
of three things that allowed us to do
it. The first was we genuinely had
something that was differentiated. Like
no one was doing international tax
compliance and what I was competing
against was pen and paper. And so some
of these bigger companies were willing
to take a risk on an earlier stage
business to solve this problem. So that
was like one way in which we got in. The
second uh way I'd say is as I mentioned
like I am a finance person. So I
understand you know how to sell to these
people. I they're very particular.
They're numbers driven. They're
hyperrational. They like they like
everything to balance. They like polish.
And so that I think I sort of spoke
their language and managed to get them
comfortable and get them over the line.
And then the last thing which is more of
a tactical thing around the product was
that it's very modular. Basically what
you can do is you can use sphere for one
or two regions or one or two features
let's say like registration and filing
instead of registration filing and
calculation. And so people, so like the
11 labs, the the runway AIS, like they
could try one or two regions, they could
see how how it was. And we had a lot of
confidence that like they were going to
much prefer it to what they were using,
whether it was pen and paper or whether
it was an incumbent. And then once we
were in, we just expanded and we kicked
out the incumbent. We kicked out the the
local adviser. And so it allowed us to
sort of them to derisk the decision and
then it was really land and expand.
>> It sounds like if I were to sum that up,
you found a burning problem that had not
been solved because people were using
pen and paper.
>> You really got people to trust you more
than anything else. Like at that stage
there wasn't really a product that they
could try and they were making a bet on
you and so being able to speak their
language and
>> show that you understood them was was
really impactful. and then making it
very low risk for them to try you. Yeah.
Um at the end of the day that seemed to
open up a lot for you. Talk about how
that's changed how you sell today.
You've got, you know, fullfeatured
product that's really great that does a
lot of things that nobody else in the
market can do. Has that changed your
sales process now?
>> Um I'd say it's it's pretty pretty
similar. I think you know one thing we
definitely that has changed is we've
started to move more up market and then
trust becomes more and more of a factor
there. So, you've got to have all the
bells and whistles that that come with
trust, which is, you know, you've got to
have the right security measures. You've
got to show that like you deal with like
other customers that have the same
transaction volume as them. Um, you've
got to provide referrals, uh, reference
customers, which we use and we sort of
weaponize actually. But yeah, I'd say
moving up market, it's just been we have
to show that trust more and more. it was
sort of central to the initial um sales
in the early days, but I think like
there's just more checking of the boxes
as you move up market. I will say also
that since we have grown and since word
has gotten out about the international
functionality that we have, things have
pretty shifted quite a lot. Like we used
to be 100% outbound, we're now 70%
inbound. So I think that has been
helpful and you know has changed our go
to market quite a lot. I'd say it really
does still center around trust which was
the same in the early days.
>> And what does the future for Sphere look
like?
>> There's two things about Sphere that
make us different to other folks on the
market. The first is that we spent 18
months in stealth with these initial
design partners building out these
integrations into over 100 tax
authorities across the US and globally
so that we can properly automate
registration calculation and filing end
to end. There's no other vendor on the
market that does that. They outsource a
lot of it to local advisers which is a
pretty terrible customer experience.
It's a lot of manual back and forth cost
three or four times the price. The other
key thing that differentiates us is
we've basically built the world's first
AI native tax engine. And what that does
is it collects, codifies, and monitors
tax law globally so that we can apply
the right tax treatment to any product
wherever it is sold around the world.
>> Now, that is a key piece of technology
that really is completely innovative.
Like there's a lot of people in this
space saying that they use AI but
they're using it for like ancillary use
cases like categorizing you know
correspondence from the tax authorities
like this is rebuilding the tax engine
with AI at the core and what that
translates to in terms of the future of
sphere is that right now we're just
talking about indirect tax but there are
all these other compliance areas that
businesses need when they expand
internationally that are at the
adjacency of indirect tax things like
withholding tax input put tax which is
the tax on expenses tariffs which are
obviously super topical vices of Trump
TRAM our proprietary tax review and
assessment model the AI native tax
engine it can expand very quickly into
those areas so we see this as like a
full revenuebased crossber compliance
engine versus just an indirect tax
engine and what deal did for [snorts]
payroll compliance we're going to do for
revenue based compliance
>> it's huge there's a lot of founders out
there that are maybe going through pivot
hell right now and so my hope is that
your story can be an inspiration uh for
them that like there is you know a lot
of really good stuff waiting for you on
the other side. Any advice that you
would share or that you wish somebody
shared with you when you were going
through that that would make that
process easier?
>> I would say it's all a mental game and
so many people will tell you will try
and make you rationalize that quitting
is the right option and that you know oh
but there's all these factors that like
are specific to your situation. So, it's
okay to quit and but I would say the
0.001%
of founders that end up, you know,
sticking it through,
that's what separates the wheat from the
chaff. So, I would say stick in there.
It does get better. And focus in on what
you know and what you're good at.
>> Well, Nick, thank you.
>> Thank you for joining.
>> Cheers. Appreciate it.