Video ID: lfzm2SlhbM8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfzm2SlhbM8
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1122
============================================================

From my perspective, I understand why
it's hard to imagine a post big four, a
post accounting firm world. It is a
foreign concept. Conversely, I don't
actually think they've earned the right
to maintain the reverence that they've
they've been granted for all of these
decades, centuries sometimes. [music]
And so, if this keeps going the way that
I think it's going to keep going, the
way that I'm kind of betting the house
that it's going to keep going, is that's
exactly what we're looking at, right? A
a functional and tectonic shift in the
way that these outcomes are ultimately
provided to customers. Accountants have
kind of just wormed their way into the
middle and artificially set themselves
up to be, you know, I'm the middle man,
I'm the expert. Like, what if we just
didn't have to have them?
Welcome back to another episode of the
breakdown. Today, we are joined by
Dominic Vituchi, the CEO and founder of
Onshore, uh which uses AI to automate
corporate accounting and tax. Dominic,
thanks for joining us. Thanks so much.
What is the job of an accountant and an
auditor? At a at a level of, you know,
how a computer scientist might like
describe it.
>> Right. You start off as a junior guy,
you know, you're 22 years old, you come
out, uh you you hopefully you passed
your CPA exam, if not, you can take it
while you work there, there's much
provisional stuff, but you show up and
and really, blocking and tackling, nuts
and bolts, is
open a spreadsheet
and copy some data from one type of
document to a different type of document
and like do some formulas to do some
arithmetic, right? So, a good example of
this, I was doing a R&D research and
development tax credits, right? And it
was I started on Tuesday and on Friday,
partner said, "Hey, let's go out to this
client site." It was a client that made
boxes. We went out there and it was me,
this manager and this partner. And I
brought a yellow legal pad and a pen.
And the partner said, "Hey, listen,
don't say anything, just take notes."
Okay, easy enough. So, we show up,
partner, we have a meeting scheduled all
day Friday and then Monday, Tuesday the
next week. 8 hours, 30 minutes with as
many employees as we can get at that
company. Just like you time you come sit
down and say, "Hey, listen. Here's a
piece of paper, read the paper."
And you took, you know, 90 seconds to
read this paper. It's all about the R&D
tax credit rules.
And so you read the paper, and then you
look up and the partner looks you in the
eye and says, "Well, how much of your
time do you spend doing an R&D tax
credit?"
And now you're an engineer, you're a
sharp guy. You say, "I don't know, 30%.
Can I leave now?"
Partner says, "Oh, 30%? Uh don't you
mean like 80%?"
And the guy goes, "Yeah, 80%." Partner
says, "Oh, perfect. Dominic, write that
down." And so 80 zero, and I did that
for 20 something hours.
Then, the worst part is I go back to the
office,
open my legal pad,
and then I just, you know, ta- blah blah
filled 8 zero equals this times that.
And that that's it. Okay, so the idea of
the tax credit is like there's certain
kinds of work Right. where the if you're
doing that work, the federal government
wants to incentivize it, so we'll kind
of give you money back if if you have
engineers doing
research. Anybody, I mean, in this
particular domain, and this is one of
our like flagship products, right? So I
do want to take just a beat to talk
about it. Really, it's an incentive at
the federal and the state level in the
United States amongst other countries in
the world that encourages research to be
done onshore domestically at some of
these organizations, right? The idea
being, "Hey, if you're
conducting research, and that's the
creation of a new product, a new
process, or a new technique, or the
improvement of a product, process, or
technique, you should get an incentive,
especially if you're keeping technical
jobs in the United States, for example."
Yeah. What you're basically saying is
like this this is a pretty
straightforward task of like identifying
how much of each employee's work is in a
it's sort of area that's um eligible for
this tax credit. Right. So,
straightforward arithmetically, yes.
It's it's numbers and math. Like I could
if you gave me a pen, I could just write
down how to do the math right now. It'd
be very simple. Yeah. The trick is for
this particular workflow, right? Is is
substantiating it. As we zoom out, this
is the case for like why do accountants
and and advisors and consultants exist,
period, right? Because it's rarely about
what math you can do. It's about what
you can prove happened. And so for the
R&D tax credit for example, it's all
about contemporaneous documentation to
say, "Hey, how do you know Tom spent
this time doing these things?" Oh, hey,
well, we pulled, you know, get issues,
we pulled Jira tickets, we pulled the
And then hey, we can prove he spent
hours doing this. Easy for a software
company. Somewhat more nuanced perhaps
for a manufacturing company or an
architecture company or an engineering
company even that might have different
levels of tracking of these things. Is
this the reason this field is now able
to be automated whereas 5 years ago even
it wasn't? Like is it that the computers
can understand words and read documents
in a way that unlocks those types of
customers? Yeah, I think a large part of
it is that, right? So when I when I was
at Grant Thornton for for all those
years, I brought up to them and said,
"Hey, you know, there's there's
technology that can achieve these
outcomes." Obviously, I I was not
thinking of what we have today, right? I
I was a young guy. I said, "But hey, at
absolute worst, we can automate certain
aspects of this workflow, right? Certain
right repetitive tasks." This was in
like the kind of like RPA quasi res
Renaissance, right? This was
you know, some of the companies I knew
spent like millions of dollars on like
Alteryx licenses. I'm really just
dumping on a lot of companies today.
Point being is that they bought all
these RPA software. I remember like last
year at at Grant Thornton, I'm laughing,
they had this thing called Automation
Anywhere and they wanted everyone to
become a certified Automation Anywhere
expert.
Which is just like
the funniest thing in the world. And and
so
you do this Automation Anywhere
certificate and like you just like play
the video on the way back home and you
get a certificate. Like firms like,
"Guys, we did it." And it's like, "Yeah,
Did we?" Yeah. Right? And so in the
past, you know, they you could have
automated a lot of tasks. I think now
what we've seen in the last, you know,
three I mean, our batch I mean, remember
our batch started in January 23, which
is like 6 weeks after ChatGPT came out,
right? So at our company at Onshore, I
was just like fortuitously
enrolled in like the GPT-3 beta in like
early '21 and it was like
was like pretty bad. Like it couldn't
achieve the outcomes today but I could
see at the time like hey, if this gets
just like a little bit better
this is
just as good if arguably not more
capable than like your junior and even
your mid-level accounting staff. And so
now, you know, having arrived at where
we are today
with these incredibly capable frontier
models, I mean the fact of the matter is
that today is the worst they'll ever be.
And so we're already at a place where I
personally believe that they outperform
people at the junior, the mid-level and
and certainly
kind of touching if not exceeding the
capability of some of like your most
senior technical experts.
I mean and and and that's kind of the
reality of where we're at. Tell us how
you got to to Y Combinator in
2023. Like what was the backstory?
>> Somewhat non-traditionally, I would
think. Uh and so before I did YC in '23,
I worked at a big giant accounting firm
called Grant Thornton. And I went to
school for for accounting and computer
science here at at the University of
Illinois. So I'm from the Midwest.
Right? Went to school, you know, for
arguably a non-tech thing. I mean I have
a CS
>> had the intersection, right? You had the
accounting and computer science.
>> I had the CS the CS background and I had
the accounting background and then kind
of inertia took over and said, "Hey, I I
got all these hours to be a CPA. So I
may as well just like finish it, right?"
Graduated went to go work at Grant
Thornton and were introduced to maybe
the less conceptual and the more
executional work which was less
exciting. And so tell us, what does
Onshore do? So at its core, Onshore uses
technology, AI models, uh to
automate a lot of the work that is being
done today by accounting firms. And
that's things like tax and and hopefully
soon things like audit and even advisory
services, right? To take away a lot of
the
repetitive, superfluous tasks that
people are paying a lot of money for and
automating that so you can really rely
on the expertise, the capabilities and
genuinely
you know, get what you're paying for
from an outcomes perspective. So you
were back at Grant Thornton. I don't
know how Was it six, five, six, seven
years
>> Five five uh oh, I was there yeah, about
five years ago. Five years ago. Yeah.
And at the time, you were kind of trying
to suggest they use software, and it
sounds like they weren't very receptive
to it. Do you think today they are
trying to transform their own
businesses, trying to disrupt
themselves? The idea is do I think that
they want to do this? No. I don't think,
I know they don't, right? So, I have
some friends and not at Grant Thornton,
but they work at other firms. I actually
talked with with somebody at the largest
of these big four firms. And they
there's all this press was oh, you know,
Deloitte investing a billion dollars in
AI and and KPMG and and Cherry Beker at
one of the top 20 firms. And it's a lot
of noise. It's a lot of rattling of
coins to say, "Hey, we're doing this."
But when you get down to it,
I I learned that at one of these large
firms, the investment was purchasing
like uh three to four million dollars of
Copilot licenses.
So, that everybody could have Copilot.
And so, I said, "Okay, what do you guys
do with that?" Nothing. It's horrible.
It doesn't work. Yeah, I spoke to um a
couple of guys who
uh with the head of AI, joint head of AI
at one of the uh big accounting firms.
>> Sure. And they were trying to use AI to
transform accounting and audit.
Uh which by the way, I love as an idea.
>> Yeah. Concept, great. And I asked them
um
how many software engineers they had
working with them.
>> zero. I can tell you from my experience
when I was when I was at the firm, we
had me
for like three years. There you know, of
all the United States Grant Thornton
employees, I was the only one
with the software background.
Which is horrible. And then my last
year, we tried to build something called
uh tax innovation. And so, we hired like
three other people with a tech
background.
Who then also subsequently got laid off
during the pandemic. I bet if you were
to ask any of them today, you're going
to get the exact same answer. Oh, we
don't you know, we don't have any, but
we are learning Copilot code. Or hey, we
we you know, the the Co-worker thing
that just came out. Or even worse,
they'll say, "Yeah, we're actually
paying a development agency, you know,
somewhere overseas to like build this."
Like, guys, this is never going to work,
which is what I experienced when I was
there is hey, we should try this. So oh
yeah, yeah, but like try how? Like maybe
can we build a prototype in Excel? No.
We can't. Like but just believe that
this could work. And fundamentally, I
think Tom like you know, using AI
technology to disrupt, you know,
auditing, accounting, tax, whatever is
is a great idea. I think a lot of them
like to say it. But the reality is that
like they don't want to do it for two
reasons. One, it is a fundamental shift
in what they perceptionally drive as
value. Right now they bill for hours of
expertise.
And as soon as like the hour becomes a
diminished unit of value, you no longer
really have a whole lot of
ground to stand on when you say hey,
certainly pay me a thousand, fifteen
hundred, two thousand dollars an hour.
And then moreover,
the reality of the situation is that you
have to then as a senior partner, a guy,
cuz a lot of these firms have a
mandatory retirement age. You got to say
a guy who's maybe has three to five
years left in his career, hey,
we as a firm that's going to affect my
pension, my payoff rest of my have to
plow a ton of money into something I
will never reap the benefits from. And
so, you have this real asymmetric value
prop. You got you know, some 40 year old
partner says hey, let's use AI.
Some older guys, you know, at 63, 64
years old say well, I'm going to retire
in 24 months. I don't
who care about this? Like I'm not going
to see the value here in
you know, five, six, ten, fifteen years.
And so quickly, the guys who make the
decisions, the senior partnership say
well,
what if we just don't do that? Mhm. And
then you get into this cycle of people
like me who work there, who want to make
a change, who suggest these types of
changes and get shut down. I say okay,
fine. I'll just leave and eat your lunch
and that's fine with me. So you left,
you built this product. You have a
choice to try to sell it to those
customers to automate their work.
>> Or go compete with them.
>> Yep. Um seems like now you're doing the
latter, but you started with the former.
Walk us through that like journey. Yeah,
yeah. So I I left the firm in in 2020 in
August. And so my initial idea, right,
was well, I I can fix the problem that
like that I observed here. And so I
built some software. I I created
something that I felt was pretty
compelling and then went to these firms
and said, "Hey, listen, how would you
like to make this, you know, 80%
faster?" We had at the time probably
eight customers or so like doing some
like mid six figure amount of revenue by
the time we you know, cut over two years
after this whole
transition happened. But for those two
years that hey, listen, you know, these
are top 20 top 50 firms that wanted to
implement our product. And when you
pitch that, you know, Dave to like a
senior partner they hear, "This is
great. I'm going to bill the exact same
amount, but my margin is going to go
through the roof because when I was at
the the firms that are my compatriots at
these firms, if you have a project
that's like 30% gross margin like you're
a hero. Like that's the apex of
achievement." And when they think,
"Well, hey, hold on a second. 80%
reduction in in cost, margin's going up,
I'm the best partner at this firm."
Problem
is rarely are these senior guys making
the decisions actually doing the work.
And inside of all these firms, there's
this really weird like asymmetric value
proposition, which is you need to
achieve a certain number of billable
hours to stay employed at the firm. And
so if you're like a junior guy, a
mid-level guy, someone trying to become
a partner, and I walk in with this
offer, which I did for two years and
say, "Hey, listen, automate 80% of the
work you're doing." They hear, "I'm
going to I'm going to get fired. I'm not
doing this." And so for two years, I
just I fought with these firms, "Hey,
tech is better. AI is better. This is
more interesting." And I would get
pushback constantly. No, no, my pivot
table is better. This is an edge case.
It doesn't fit. We do it this way.
Change your tech to fit this. Well, it's
like, "Guys, just
try it." And and so after like two years
of like banging my head against the
wall, and this is how we ended up coming
to YC, I was just like, "You know what?
I don't want to build that company
anymore." Right? Selling software
to accounting firms and consultancies is
a losing game. And I I'd say that to
everybody. People ask me all the time,
"Oh, can that build for software for
accounting?" Maybe. And like maybe
there's a billion-dollar company out
there to be made. I don't see it because
your customer is truly the least
motivated group of people on the planet
to achieve what you're trying to
achieve. This all makes sense and it
seems very similar to what we saw when
companies tried to sell to lawyers
previously. But that seems to have been
solved, right? Legora is on a tear,
Harvey's doing really well. They've
figured out a way to actually sell to
people who bill by the hour. Right. Do
you know the reason why it worked there
and not in accounting? There is still a
perceived premium on like legal time.
Cuz like lawyers, you know, you mess up,
massive fine, jail maybe, right?
Accountants, you mess up like business
inefficiencies. When it comes to tax,
maybe jail, but like very rarely. And so
I do think there's still an industry
difference perception. I also
would contend that a lot of these
companies are on a tear because lawyers
are maybe
more accepting of like the incoming new
world order
as opposed to accountants who perhaps
have their heads like slightly more
buried in the sand.
>> a forward thinking. It's the first time
I Yeah, that that might be that's might
be the hardest thing for
>> I think my observation of law is that
the industry has been moving to
project-based billing for some time.
This idea that everything is built by
the hour is just not true anymore. And
even when I was at my last company, we
hired auditors or accountants and they
would bill by a project. Oh yeah, yeah,
yeah, we did a lot of we did a lot of
project like fixed fee projects though.
And I think basically law will go that
way, accounting and audit will have to
go that way. And once you are
you're you're billing by project, you
have price competition and then people
have a lot more incentive to to reduce
their cost. You would think.
>> [laughter]
>> You would think.
Because I I I say that because a lot of
the stuff that we did
and even a lot of the stuff that like
when I was selling to accountants was
project bill, right? Even I I mean hours
is like a whole other issue, but
project bill stuff, they still don't
want to reduce those fees. And so when
they come into these pitch, you know,
hey, we might be 20% more expensive, but
we have the smartest people doing the
smartest work. And and I always say
this,
that is probably true for one firm,
right? Like only one can have the
smartest people. So, let's say
it's Deloitte, for example. By
definition of smartest, like everybody
that not there can't also have the
smartest people. And so, you know, you
get this really weird dichotomy where
it's like, "Hey, our prices are
you know, project based." Now, what
about you if you divide that project by
the number of hours that it takes, then
it gets real similar to their hourly
rate.
>> Sure, and that's how they come up with
the project base to start with, I think.
So, you tried selling directly to these
tax advisors, these accountants, and you
banged your head against the wall for 2
years.
>> Yeah. And then something changed. Yeah,
basically after 2 years, I got so
frustrated with these people like cuz I
I knew, right? I saw it, I believed it,
I lived the problem. I did the thing, so
I knew it was possible, and I built the
thing that was possible. And to have a
lot of people just tell me directly,
"This isn't right. This doesn't work.
This will never happen." which was just
like infuriating, because I I I don't
know why, but just that like the core of
my being, I just knew this was going to
happen. And I knew that,
you know, why can't I be the
precipitator of this of this thing? And
so,
after being told this so many times, I
thought, "Well, maybe the accountants
aren't actually the ones that derive any
value out of this, right? Like when you
just zoom out, like who actually gets
the benefit of of doing an R&D tax
credit or a tax return even or an audit,
right?" The company. The government kind
of regulates a lot of it. There's rules
and regulations and laws, and so really
it's just a
a transaction, a contract between the
government and the company. And
accountants have kind of just wormed
their way into the middle and
artificially set themselves up to be,
you know, I'm the middleman. I'm the
expert. Like, what if we just didn't
have to have that, right? What if we
stopped enabling this artificial
middleman and just like, you know, this
whole like sell shovels in a gold rush
thing? What if you just like burned all
the shovels, broke them in half, and
just brought the gold by the handful to
the company? Like that seems a lot
better to me. And so, in summer '22, we
fired all of our customers, said, "Hey,
sorry, we no longer offer the service,
like your contract's terminated. Thanks,
have a good day. Goodbye. I took my ball
and went home. Rebuilt the software to
be focused on the corporations, the
taxpayers, right? The people that
ultimately benefit from this. And then
started just going on LinkedIn and like
cold DMing a bunch of people. And I mean
this was like old school stuff. We
didn't have like all the cool AI sales
like silliness that we have today. So I
was just like, hey, my name's Dominic. I
can do your R&D tax credit better
because I use AI. And I sent a message
very similar to that to like a thousand
people. We got this company in Miami to
say, hey, you know, come down. You know,
we want to meet you in person because we
don't know about this tech thing, but
you seem like a genuine guy. So we flew
to Miami, you know, I we I we had no
money. Uh you know, we stayed in some
random hotel.
They said, hey, this sounds really good.
You sound better and more efficient than
our current provider. It's a lower
price.
Let's give it a shot. And I said, oh,
okay, great. So they signed this like
paper contract like in person that I
like put in a folder and like took home.
And then like the while we were there
like on the flight there we got an email
from from IC. They said, hey, you want
to do this interview? And we had applied
to IC on kind of a whim. I knew about it
from college like from like my computer
background. Had some friends that like
had done it, but I didn't really know
much about it. So we applied, did the
interview there, and then like before I
got on the flight back home to Chicago,
I uh we'd gotten in, which was like
arguably one of the most transformative
things that ever happened. One of the
problems sometimes is that when you are
a big company and you are paying for a
big logo like Grant Thornton or Deloitte
or whatever, there's some there's a sort
of
you know, no one ever gets fired for
buying IBM kind of thought process.
Whereas like you turn up and I mean your
co-founder, why don't you tell us a
little bit about about Mark, your
co-founder?
>> So I I did have a co-founder named Mark.
Um he was actually my like bosses bosses
boss at Grant Thornton. And we had
worked together on a few projects, um
had collaborated a bunch, and and he was
a he was a reasonably forward-thinking
guy for like a senior partner at this
accounting firm, right? He, I believe,
really saw what I was pitching there and
was confined by his circumstance. And so
when I left to start this company, I had
called him up, you know, probably a few
months, maybe a year later and said,
"Hey, listen, I'm getting some traction.
I'd love for you to come over and lend
A, some professional credence to this,
you know, a senior partner at Grant
Thornton comes over and co-signs this
innovation, becomes somewhat more
palatable than like junior guy,
you know, that started doing this. But
then B, just a wealth of of expertise
and knowledge. And so when he came over,
we worked together for a few years. He
contributed quite a bit when it comes to
the tax knowledge, you know, how we
actually approach these companies, you
know, from a value perspective. And then
unfortunately, he he passed away in the
summer of 2024, about a year and a half
ago.
Kind of right on the precipice as we
were raising our series A. So Yeah, it's
pretty sad. Yeah, it was sad. He was he
was a great guy and and really enjoyed
working with him. You know, I I can't
say enough how how instrumental he was
in the early days. And frankly,
instrumental he was in my career at
Grant Thornton, right? I learned a
tremendous amount from him and and
appreciate everything he's done for me.
>> so Mark was like the senior partner.
How do you He'd already retired? He was
like right on the edge of retirement,
right. It's kind of an unusual team
configuration. We don't We don't see
many YC companies with a senior partner
from Grant Thornton and like a
entry-level associate. But with you
guys, it seemed to work. I would love to
tell people like there's a magic like
bullet or sauce or something secret
sauce behind that.
The reality is that I think I had a
pretty good idea and I was a reasonably
convincing guy. And so I just called him
up. We probably had three or four phone
calls about it. On the phone for an hour
or two and I kind of pitched him, "Hey,
here's what I want to do at the
beginning.
And then if we nail this, here's what we
can do next. And then if we nail that
like then three or four steps down the
road like there really is this kind of
new world order where like accounting
firms
kind of can cease to exist and like it
can be only taken, you know, by
Onshore's technology and then then
models and things like that.
>> obviously like Legwork has done this
without hiring a senior partner from the
law firm. How instrumental do you think
that credibility was? Do you think you
could have done it any other way? Yeah,
I I think it's possible, certainly. That
I think I could have gotten it done like
you said. Legora is a great example. I
think it would have been possible. I
think it would have been appreciably
more difficult, yeah, right? And I also
think that uh a lot of the buy-in from
early customers, early taxpayers was
that we could functionally replicate
with technology what they were getting
before. And the reason we could do that
is because I knew exactly what they were
getting before cuz I did the work and
Mark had sold the work, right? And so
for us, we kind of knew all of the pain
points, the levers from just having
lived in it so intimately.
And so I do believe it's possible. I
believe it would have been possible for
our company. It would have been more
difficult and we probably would be less
successful. Yeah. Let's play it out a
little bit. Your company's doing really
well, growing really fast. If you
continue this growth, what impact is it
going to have on the field of
accounting? Like in the your previous
employer,
the other companies, are they just going
to like slowly recede to nothing and
they will be gone? Like what's your view
on on how this plays out? Yeah, okay,
from a company perspective. I do want to
I I want to split this out because I
don't want to seem like an anti-worker,
like I'm trying to take a million jobs
from people. But the reality is that
like that's the point, right? That's the
hope. You know, some of these firms have
existed for almost as long as like
America has existed. Like I believe
Deloitte was founded almost 250 years
ago. From my perspective, I understand
why it's hard to imagine a post Big
Four, a post accounting firm world. It
is a foreign concept. Conversely, I
don't actually think they've earned the
right to maintain the
reverence that they've they've been
granted for all of these decades,
centuries sometimes. And so if this
keeps going the way that I think it's
going to keep going, the way that I'm
kind of betting the house that it's
going to keep going, is that's exactly
what we're looking at, right? A a
functional and tectonic shift in the way
that these outcomes are ultimately
provided to customers. Because that's
that's all we're doing. That's all we
do, that's all they do, is we provide an
outcome, right? They provide it
you know, using billable hours and
projects and manual processes and humans
and all these things, and we provide it
slightly differently. Do you think the
accounting industry will make more or
less revenue in 10 years? I think the
industry will make more revenue. And do
you think it will employ more people or
fewer people? I think that it will
probably employ a similar number of
people. And so what I don't necessarily
see happening is is a complete
elimination of the need for humans in
this cycle. And so the reason I say that
and and I'm not even saying the humans
that currently exist in the cycle cuz I
think a lot of folks that are currently
in it won't be in it in 10 years, right?
I do think that this will enable a new
type of professional, a new type of
human professional, to enter this.
People with a more technical background,
right? People with a a higher kind of
threshold of innovative thinking, right?
To enter this and one manipulate some of
these tools, work in concert with some
of these tools, and then two, and
remarkably more interestingly, really
provide what these firms were set up to
do to begin with, right? Because when
you know, these firms were founded many
many decades and centuries ago,
they really were a a haven for the
experts in in specificity to explain
that to somebody else or to achieve an
outcome for somebody else. If the metric
is
revenue per employee, Yes. I imagine
that is going to go through the roof.
Yes. And I don't think total spend on
accounting is going to 10x. Right. And
so therefore the thing that's going to
flex down is the number of people.
>> to be head counts. Yeah, I think revenue
per employee at Deloitte will go up, but
I do think that companies, taxpayers,
corporations will have more people that
do more of these things internally. The
accounting firm of the future first has
less people. Well, first of all it will
change shape. So if you look at Deloitte
or KPMG, it looks like that, right? You
have a a small number of senior partner,
yeah, lots and lots and lots of juniors.
I think it will end up more like that.
Um I don't think you'll have the very
fat bottom layer cuz I think you'll have
AI agents doing it. And I think the
people at the top
are mostly there for sales. Yes, I would
agree. I would say that the people at
the very top, they're for sales,
business development. I think there's
probably a layer underneath that for for
expertise, positioning, regulatory
compliance type stuff. And then some
level of just software engineering. But,
I mean, as with other firms, the
software engineering itself is getting
eaten by Well, and that's the other
thing is that you don't even have You
mean, you could argue 5 years ago, okay,
supplant the junior level of accounts
with kind of that bottom of the pyramid
with software engineers and it's this
problem. And today, that is also
shifting in a huge way in that like you
need fewer software engineers to achieve
the same outcomes.
Or better outcomes even. Yeah, that's
certainly what we're seeing amongst YC
companies today. Just people are growing
to much higher revenue with far fewer
employees faster. Okay, so tell us um
you've grown revenue pretty quickly so
far. Where are you up to right now? Uh
so this year in '26 we're trying to get
into 100 million. And you're at what
Today you're at 20-ish. Uh we're like 25
or so. 25 Okay, so you're from 25 to 100
million in revenue this year. And how
many employees will you have at that
stage? I think by the end of the year
we'll have, you know, somewhere between
60 and 100, probably close to 75. Okay,
sake of math, let let's make it easy.
Let's call it 100.
>> Sure. So you're making a you By the end
of the year, if you hit your targets,
you'll make a million dollars of revenue
per employee. At least. And so what is
that number for someone like Grant
Thornton or Deloitte or KPMG? My
estimation would be probably 100,000,
maybe 150,000. You're an order of
magnitude better Yeah. and you will only
get better going forward because you're
software based, whereas they can't
really change. Right. And they I mean,
arguably they will only get worse,
especially now that we see
instead of investing into technology, we
see a lot of these big companies
investing into overseas operations and
And so that's just going to dilute the
revenue per employee even further.
>> So you started in like a very specific
thing, R&D tax credits, and I'm sure you
have a plan to expand beyond that to
more general accounting. Do you think
that's the right approach now that
you've done it? Like picking some small
wedge and expanding, or as technology
gets more capable, can you just kind of
like go and do it all straight away?
>> I still maintain the way that we did it
was the best way. Um and I do think that
like the the ever-increasing capability
of technology makes it easier to do it
the other way. I kind of think that's a
bit of a fool's pursuit, right? The idea
of trying to boil the ocean all at once
is very challenging, right? And when I
look at the way that we work with
customers, the way that people interact
with us and ultimately purchase products
from us, it has been an incredible
benefit for our business, for Anser's
business, to be great at one thing
really early. And and like obviously
we've expanded now and we're going to
expand in a tremendous way over the
next, you know, many years, but the
reality is when we can come and show,
"Hey, we can do an R&D tax credit
better, faster, more affordably, with
better traceability." If we come up and
say that and prove it, right? It's way
better than showing up and saying, "Hey,
we can do all your stuff." Right?
Because rarely do you have a CFO at a
kind of mid-market or enterprise company
say, "Hey, you can do all our stuff. All
right, somebody scrape out Deloitte,
these guys are starting with." Right?
But if you show them and say, "Hey, we
can do your R&D credit a little bit
better." Well, hey, we'll give that a
shot. And then they experience it and
the next year is, "Well, hey, you did
great on this R&D credit." And I'll tell
you, the way that we have built all of
our new features, all of our new
products has been this interaction. You
did this well.
And because of that, can you do that or
this? X or Y or Z? And oftentimes what
we tell the customers is, "Well, hey,
no, we don't do that today."
But why do you think we would do that so
well?" So, "Oh, because this module
would work really well and and so then
eventually we gather enough of that
feedback and listen to the customers and
then give them what they want. And it
has worked out tremendously well for us.
So, I would recommend anybody starting
any company to say, "I think the allure
of
of starting a net new startup, hey, it's
me and my co-founder or to our earlier
conversation, it's me and my AI agents
and we're going to just supplant all the
things that Deloitte does."
Technically possible
from a tech software, whatever
perspective. I think that from a
business perspective, it is just it's
not possible.
If you were going to start a startup
today, what idea would you choose to
tackle? I'd love to tell you I have one
specific thing that's nagging at me,
But, but the overarching thing that
keeps I keep coming back to is a better
or different Microsoft Excel, right?
>> [clears throat]
>> Uh and the reason for that is I think
spreadsheets and and Excel in its
original iteration and in many
iterations on the road as as a
spreadsheet functionality is great. I
think that it has been kind of just like
squished and torn and fit into a million
different boxes for things it was never
meant to do. And we have a
a huge part of our professional society
both in in accounting and legal, banking
built on this tool that really was never
meant or intended to be built upon in
the way that it has been, right? And so
I think I I don't have a great answer to
what the software should look like or
what the features should be, but I do
think a a reimagining of
the way that some of these industries
work on Excel and and a
supplantation or or
new net new like workflow there would be
really interesting to see. There are
obviously vibe coding tools you could go
and use Replit, but why don't your
customers using something like Replit?
Yeah, I mean even to some of the stuff
that we talked about earlier, right? I
think if you you ask somebody, "Hey, why
don't you vibe code a Replit app?" They
would ask, "What is Replit and what is
vibe coding?"
And so I think that the the access and
the democratization of that knowledge is
less permeating society than we all
might think it is. But the other side of
that is that like
as we talked about like the the agency
piece of it, right? If if I was, you
know, kind of a junior guy at Grant
Thornton and I wasn't me and I was just
some of the folks that I had worked with
and said, "Hey, why don't you just vibe
code this app or use Replit to build
this app to like fix like the billing
system at one of these accounting
firms?" My immediate answer would be
like, "Yeah, I'm not going to do that."
Right? That seems like a lot of work and
I'm not actually going to get anything
for it. They're just going to take my
thing and I'm just going to like go play
basketball on the weekends. And so I
think there's capability there in the
existing tools. I think that the
knowledge gap, the agency gap exists.
And also siloed and specific apps for
everything that Excel is built on leads
to this like float of of functionality
or a float of individual tools, which
like is a problem in and of itself. And
then some other guy that comes on this
podcast a decade from now will want to
fix that problem. Okay, so you think
there's space somewhere between Excel
and Replit? Like the non-technical
professional services user to take to
like rip all the functionality out of
Excel and and build it in a way that
they can kind of understand and
maintain. Yes, that and also not rip out
individual functions, but rip out macro
type functions. And macro in that, you
know, you could rip out a subsection of
five, six, seven, 10 things that you're
doing in Excel that may be seemingly
unrelated, but ultimately use the same
foundation of technology. Whether that's
a pivot table, whether that's, you know,
VBA or or or databasing, right? And
bring that into its own tool, right? So
you don't have to have 50 apps, you
could have five. So this has been a
really interesting conversation. Last
year we did a couple of shows where we
talked about the impact of AI on
software engineering and and made some
predictions about what would be possible
and
it seems like those predictions were not
a million miles away what I the
compared to what's actually happened.
Correct. Yeah, in terms of the technical
capability of these AI systems, I think
we were kind of right about that.
We have not seen mass layoffs in
software engineering world. Yeah, that
and that's interesting. So like the
models have continued to get good, the
capabilities match what we thought they
would sort of do. And and even in the
last few weeks you can kind of sense a
bit of a shift. You know, if you spend
all your time on on Twitter like I do,
um
great professional software engineers
are now starting to embrace AI, right?
And like I think the contention that
software programmers will no longer
write code sounded crazy nine months ago
and now is like orthodoxy almost.
And my contention is the same thing is
going to happen to accounting and law
and audit. The things that we thought
you needed humans for, we won't need
humans for for very much longer. And so
by the end of this year I can see um
mass realization that the AI can do
these knowledge work jobs just as well
or better than humans and yet still not
that big a change in employment rate. I
think that might be like five or six or
seven years to come. No, I would agree
with that. I think I mean I'll be
honest. I mean even even from our
internal, right? This year, you know,
second half of last year even, we see a
lot more excitement and acceptance of of
the AI portion of our business, right?
In the early days, you know, hey, we
have AI, but don't don't worry about
that. It's just doing some And now
people are excited about it, right?
People people want to see it. We had a
few a few customers say, "Well, hey, can
I see your AI do the work?" And I'm
like, "Well, that demonstrates you don't
exactly know how AI works, but like
that's fine. Like I I appreciate your
your ambition, right?" And do you see
that some enthusiasm? Exactly. That's
what we kind of predicated on. And so I
think that I think you're spot-on,
right? I think the end of this year
we'll see not just realization, but a
lot more like fundamental acceptance
that AI can achieve these outcomes
either at the same level or or arguably
better than they have. I don't think
that's going to lead to like mass
unemployment in 2026 or even 2027. I
agree with you. Well, this has been a
fantastic discussion. Thank you for
joining us, Dominic. It's been a
pleasure. I appreciate it, guys. Thanks
so much.