Title: Fireside with Epic Games Founder & CEO Tim Sweeney
Video ID: MhsjuJaGLK4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhsjuJaGLK4
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:00:11Z
Duration: PT23M41S
Views: 3090
Likes: 100
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 635

Description:
Interviewed by Leah Nylen — Antitrust Reporter, Bloomberg.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

You are the founder and CEO of Epic
Games and one of the things that you
guys have been pretty well known for
over the past couple of years is taking
on Google and Apple. I wonder if you
could tell us a little bit about why you
decided to sort of start that fight.
Yeah. Well, they've they've distorted
the the American business landscape into
something that's almost unrecognizable.
You know, my my first experience as a
programmer was with an Apple 2. You buy
this computer, you turn it on um and the
first thing that comes up is a
programming prompt. Anybody can write
code. You don't need to join a developer
program and pay some annual fee for the
ability to write basic code. Um you
could then save your program to a floppy
disc. You'd share it with any friend.
You could uh sell it in a store. Uh you
could publish it on a bulletin board
online. Uh everybody had complete
freedom to do business together. And
that you know for the following 25 years
uh in that era every you know the the
entire global software industry formed
and uh was an incredibly competitive and
robust business. Um when Apple came out
with the iPhone, they totally shut that
down. Um they blocked all competing
stores and competing payment processors
and imposed junk fees on the platform.
You know, taking 30% of all
transactions. You know, seemed like a a
low fee in 2008 or so, but um now it's
by far the majority of profit being made
by all digital apps. Um Apple makes more
profit from every app than the
developers of the apps themselves make.
Um, it's just unjust and it's broken the
broken the software economy completely.
Uh, to the point where, you know, it's
not just Apple taxing revenue of other
companies. It's deciding who's allowed
to compete with them and how. Um, we
built an awesome PC game store that
competes with the Steam game store and
the Microsoft game store and the good
old game store on PC. Um, Apple blocks
it on iPhone. We're not allowed to
compete with Apple uh to have a software
store on iOS. Um and they bar large
categories of competitors from
competing. Um you know they blocked game
emulators until uh Europe forced them to
open up. Uh they block AI assistants
from performing functions nearly as well
integrated as Siri. They block competing
web browser engines so that web browsers
remain crappy uh using and for are
forced to use the Safari engine which is
intentionally limited in order to stifle
the viability of web as a comp
competitor to to native apps. Um, so
there's this vast gamut of
anti-competitive practices Apple imposes
there. And um, and finally, we very much
wanted to show the world what was really
happening. Um, we didn't just file a
court case. We went out and we defied
Apple's rules and we defied Google's
rules and we launched an a direct
payment system into our app. uh enabling
developers or enabling Fortnite players
to buy directly from us and save 20% uh
or buy from Apple and uh you know pay
the regular price. Um Apple blocked us
from that. We filed our antitrust case
against both Apple and Google
simultaneously and um you we've been
fighting ever since and we're not going
to stop until uh until companies like us
are free to compete again everywhere in
the world. Um, and uh, it's just been
very disappointing. What used to be, you
know, a really visionary, respectable
industry in the United States has turned
into, you
know, some sort of gangster movie, uh,
where, you know, companies are openly
breaking the law. um their law firms are
openly breaking the law and um you know
they realize that because they have such
uh tight uh relationships with the
government um that they think they can
get away with it forever and uh
occasionally pay some fines here and
there rather than um being forced to
open up and allow competition. Yeah, we
see this as an existential threat to not
only our business but to the entire
developer ecosystem we serve. You we're
not just a game maker making Fortnite,
we also make the Unreal Engine um and a
lot of other tools for other developers.
And we think, you know, one of the major
reasons the game industry is burning
down right now with so many distressed
companies and layoffs, uh, is because of
the monopolization of app distribution.
Um, when you started this fight back in
2020, did you imagine that this is where
you would be in 2025? You would still be
going on? I had higher hopes um that uh
that the court would rec the courts
would recognize and more speedily deal
with um the abusive practices of Apple
and Google. You know, one of the first
things we did when we filed Epic versus
Apple and Epic versus Google cases, we
sought a a preliminary injunction um to
stop Apple and Google from blocking
Fortnite from competing and to stop them
from blocking our payment processing
service. Um, you know, we'd hoped that
there would be a path to immediately
relief. That was denied. Um and you know
the assumption at the time I think you
might have a very different decision
being made today if the court were lit
the case were litigated today but the
decision in 2020 uh was that they are
the incumbent and they're presumed to be
right um and they'll just keep getting
away with the scheme until the court
absolutely forces them not to and you
know so we we won one of the major we
lost our Sherman antitrust case against
Apple which was very unfortunate again
if we knew what we knew now and the
court knew what uh the court knows now
it might have gone very differently. Um,
but Apple got away with massive
discovery abuse, massive fake privilege
abuse. Um, and this wasn't caught until
well after the case. Um, but yeah, the
result is uh it's just been justice
delayed for five years now. Um, you
know, finally the one bright spot here
has been the European Union passed the
Digital Markets Act um and forced Apple
and Google to allow competing stores.
And so we launched the Epic Games Store
in Europe successfully on iOS. We
launched Fortnite back on iOS in Europe.
Um, but now Apple and Google are still
getting away with blocking us from
competing with them in the rest of the
world. Yeah, I was going to I was going
to go here next. You know, we you
mentioned a little bit that Europe has
um impose some rules on app stores. Um,
can you tell us a little bit what has
been your experience with how Apple and
Google um have been complying with the
DMA? Well, their strategy is malicious
compliance. Um they think that they can
use their political clout uh to scare
Europe uh away from imposing large fees
on them. Um and then uh with no threat
of uh fees uh or sorry of fines uh at
the scale of billions of dollars uh you
know they can get get away with years
and years of malicious compliance, you
know. So Europe said told Apple they had
to open up uh you know iPhone to
competing stores. They they did that um
to give them some credit, but then they
introduced so many obstructions that no
store can really compete with them. You
know, they introduced scarecreens where
you have to click through a Byzantine
like Apple, you know, they're the best
user interface design company in the
world. They design awesome easy to use
user interfaces and they bu build the
worst world's worst user interface for
uh allowing the Epic Game Store to be
installed. Um you know, and so you know,
it's intentional that they did it that
way. Um, and they tell you that they
can't protect users and their software
might be insecure. And you know, Google
and Apple both both do these things. Um,
and then they impose uh fees uh for
developers who want to sell outside of
the app store. It's like if you want to
sell on another store, you not only have
to pay junk fees on your sales through
that store, you also get a worse deal
from the Apple App Store by
relinquishing exclusivity. And so, you
know, it's just textbook malicious
compliance. Um and uh you know I I
expect that the European Union will uh
come down and uh give them some much
much clearer guidance on what they need
to do. But I think that is likely to
just start the next round of malicious
compliance. Um because unless Apple was
uh really facing the the prospect of
fines that are much larger uh than the
revenue lost uh by relinquishing their
anti-competitive practices, they'll keep
doing the crime because crime crime has
paid for them so far. And this is the
problem in America and the problem in
the world. Crime pays for big tech
companies because they are getting away
with it. Their law firms are getting
away with it. And you know we obviously
we shouldn't expect that to change until
uh until enforcement becomes much much
more vigorous. So you um you all have
now launched Epic Games Store not just
in Europe but in the UK, Brazil, and
Japan. What has the experience in some
of those other places been different
than in Europe? Oh well so let's see. So
we've launched Epic Games Store on
Android. It's been on PC and Mac for
seven years now. Um, we launched it on
Android worldwide. Um, and it's
available and anybody can install it on
their phone, but uh, Google, you know,
has a flow of some 17 or 18 screens to
try to scare the user away from
installing our software. They tell the
user that Epic Games Store is from an
unknown source and it might harm your
device. Like, Google knows who we are,
I'm pretty sure. and uh they know our
software won't harm the user's device,
but you know, they pop up these
misleading warnings in order to uh
disincentivize users and disincentivize
competition. Just textbook
self-referencing, but they're getting
away with it. Um and uh but you
know, and 50 to 60% of users drop off um
from our website when they go to install
our software. 50% of them are scared
away because Google's uh scared them. Um
the 50% of people who do succeed in
installing our store have it on their
device and it works. Um and they can get
Fortnite and play. Um Epic Game Store is
launched on uh iOS and Europe um Europe
only. Everywhere else Apple is still
blocking it. Um and again the uh the
drop off for installation is 50 to 60%
because of the friction and the
scarecreens. But for users who get it on
their device, it works. Um and uh you
know we have a growing base of Fortnite
players who are returning. Do you have
you guys been able to um persuade any
other companies to put their u apps in
your store? Um yeah, we're seeing two
different tracks. Um on Android, you
know, Google does so much work marketing
Android as an open platform. You know,
under behind the scenes, they're
undermining it. Um developers have been
generally willing to put uh their apps
on the Epic Games Store for Android. So,
we have a couple dozen games now and we
have a whole lot more coming. Um, and by
the end of this year, the Epic Game
Store will enable developers to just
submit their games and, you know, we'll
have an unlimited size catalog that will
just keep growing. Um, you know,
hopefully tens of thousands or hundreds
of thousands of apps by the end of next
year. Um, on iOS, the story is different
because Apple not only uh adds uh
barriers to shipping on competing stores
on iOS, they actually make the App Store
deal dramatically worse for developers
who ship their apps through the Epic
Games Store.
um you know instead of Apple collecting
30% they collect a nominally lower fee
but then they collect an annual junk fee
of 50 cents per user per year. Um unless
your app is enormously high grossing per
user um you know any free-to-play game
is is largely dissuaded from that. So
almost no developers have been willing
to uh put their uh no major developers
of major games have been pull willing to
put those games on our store on iOS.
They just it's too expensive for them.
Apple would bankrupt them if they did
that. But we have gotten a few uh you
back catalog games, games that were big
in the past that kind of faded out and
are now coming back to the Epic Game
Store and uh we're launching there. And
hopefully after uh if Europe clarifies
the DMA and says Apple is not allowed to
impose these junk fees, then hopefully
we'll see the floodgates start to open.
I saw another interview in which you
said that you guys have spent billions
of dollars on both the legal fees and
sort of developing the Epic Game Store.
Do you think that it was worth the
money?
I think it's Yes, I think it's essential
if you know if developers like us, Epic
Games and the Y Cominator companies and
other independents in the world hope to
become major successful uh companies and
forces of nature in the tech industry.
We must be free to compete. Um right now
we're all vassels in, you know, a feudal
system that's controlled by Apple and
Google. Really sucks to admit this, but
it's the truth. Um, we are secondass
citizens in a world that they control.
Um, and you know, we'll never be able to
uh
to reinvest as the big tech companies
do. Um, if they're able to take the far
majority of our profits off of the top
line through these 30% fees, you know,
this is a competitive business. Nobody
makes a 30% profit margin with a major
app at scale. Um and so Apple's 30% fee
is the large majority of the profits and
you know they force us to in order to
pay those fees they force us to raise
the price of our apps and our
microtransactions above their natural
level which suppresses demand and you
know causes counterveailing forces on
our against our business. uh you know I
think the entire US tech economy would
be ma vastly more vibrant, competitive
and open to startups um than it is now
if uh if this regime were completely
undone as the Sherman antitrust acts
were intended to do. So uh we talked a
little bit about things in um other
countries but what would you like to see
happen here in the US um either with the
agencies or legislation?
Uh well I think America needs to take
this very ser seriously. our tech
industry is being crushed um by Apple
you know Google at the center of this
all um and other parts of the industry
being crushed by other monopolists but
this is the s core problem with apps um
I think both the existing antitrust laws
need to be forced enforced as broadly
and robustly as possible and recognizing
that Apple and Google um will engage in
massive scale malicious compliance um
and obstruction um and that their big
law firms are unshackled by what used to
be the ethical duties of lawyers um that
uh they need to be willing to take a
very hard line on that um in the way the
Sherman Antitrust Act was originally
enforced. Um I you know talking about
breakups uh potential of criminal
enforcement actions um and actions
against um individuals making decisions
as well as the companies themselves. I I
took a position against that for a very
long time. I thought that when Apple and
Google were compelled to obey the law
that they would. Um, but we see now that
that is very much not the case and that,
you know, they're they're not going to
stop until they're forced. Um, so I
think law enforcement needs to take on
an entirely new tone if uh if these
companies don't get speedily in in line
um with the requirements of law. Um, I
think regulation is also incredibly
important. you Apple and Google are
masters at um you know making bogus
security arguments um and using
lobbyists to gaslight you know
influencable people in Congress uh to
buy into their arguments they know
aren't real but um you know are
overcoming with with donations
um I I think we need very very clear
legislation such as the open apps market
act saying that digital platforms cannot
monopolize distribution. They cannot
disadvantage competing distribution
sources. They cannot disadvantage
competing web browsers or web browser
engines and they can't down they cannot
shut down or disadvantage any of the
vectors that competitors need to use to
compete broadly across the entire
platform. So the open apps market act
solves the app part of that problem but
it only solves it as in its current form
in the United States. Um, you've come to
realize that Apple and Google kind of
want every country, you know, all the
more than 100 countries around the world
with app economies to have to go off and
do their own antitrust enforcement and
litigation and force each one to play
out uh their malicious compliance
strategy in detail before they comply.
Calculating that they can probably delay
this another five or 10 years and
continue collecting the monopoly rents
if they don't. Um, I think that needs to
be shut down by the United States. And
uh you know if the United States doesn't
solve this problem worldwide for these
US gatekeepers, you're just going to see
a giant maze of international regulation
and uh and gridlock uh as different
countries regulate these platforms in
different ways and they're all forced
into Byzantine solutions. I think the
answer should be something like
extending the open apps market act with
a developer bill of rights saying every
developer has the right to compete if
they choose uh with the platform makaker
store payment service. um web browser
engine and every other critical
component of the technology stack on
equal terms uh with no self-referencing
and no no friction. Um and you know I
think some sort of uh enforcement regime
like that with universal jurisdiction is
required to reign the these companies in
line. You know, the one of the most
disappointing aspects of the Epic versus
Google case, which we won in front of a
jury on every single count,
um after the jury deliberated for about
five hours, I might say, um it was an
incredible victory in court, uh but the
court ultimately though the court has
jurisdiction to impose uh global
remedies on a US company, they imposed
remedies only on the United States.
Google's got to allow competing stores
and stop uh stop some of its ugly
practices just in America. They're free
to screw over American developers in
every other country around the world.
You know, so that's not really solving
the problem. And I think legislation
will need to do that. And uh you know,
the time is now. Otherwise, you're just
going to end up with an US economy
that's become hopelessly uncompetitive
because a few companies were able to
dominate everything, prevent competitors
from arising, emerging, and competing.
And, you know, freed of competition,
Apple and Google have no incentive to
build good products. And as you can see,
the massive quality degradation in
Apple's own smartphones. You know, like
now setting screens, they're laden with
ads. Um, app store searches always begin
with an ad for some thing that's not the
thing you're looking for.
Um, you know, AI, their AI solution is
horrid compared to the top the next five
maybe 10 uh competing AI solutions which
could offer a Siri like framework if
Apple didn't block them from doing that.
You know, they're just inferior to
competitors in every way. And because
they won't have to compete with the
competitors, it doesn't really matter.
But, you know, America is the big loser
in this. America is not going to, you
know, retain its position as global tech
leader um if these small number of US
companies are allowed to stifle
competition from all the other US
companies that aspire to do better. I
don't know if you were here earlier when
uh FTC chairman Andrew Ferguson was
speaking, but he criticized the DMA as
uh potentially unfairly targeting
American companies and uh he and some in
the Trump administration has sort of um
characterized the fines that are
expected to be imposed as taxes or
tariffs on American companies. I I
wondered how you sort of respond to that
kind of criticism. Well, the sad truth
is that Apple and Google are no longer
goodfaith law-abiding companies.
They they're run in many ways as you
know gangster style businesses that will
do anything they think they can get away
with. Um if they think that the fine is
going to be cheaper than the lost
revenue from an illegal practice,
they'll continue the illegal practice
and pay the fine. Yeah, I think Europe
realized this uh and quite preciently
and structuring the DMA as imposing
super harsh fines um in response to
non-compliance. Their goal isn't to
collect massive taxes on US companies.
Europe's goal is for American companies
to compete fairly, which is really
important to other American companies
like us. Small tech uh needs the ability
to compete with big tech. Um, but you
know, I think if you're going to enforce
regulations of this sort, you need to
pick your poison. You can have either
exorbitant fines that are designed to
coersse compliance um and strongly
disincentivize non-compliance or you're
going to need um prosecution of
executives making these decisions. Not
and perhaps the law firms that are uh
running improper and unethical and
unlawful legal practices to, you know,
destroy documents, cover up document
destruction. um and uh and evade uh
discovery through false privilege
classifications. Um you know, you're
going to need some sort of individual um
sanctions and perhaps criminal sanctions
against companies and against
individuals. And yeah, I hate saying
that because I don't want the US
government to or any government to have
that kind of power, but uh and I think
that fines are the much less harsh
solution there. But um
ultimately, if the companies won't
comply with the law, they need to be
forced to. And uh you know, this is this
is what the government does. If you if
you if you rob a bank, you you get put
in jail. And uh you know, if you're
robbing developers for 20 or tens of
billions of dollars a year, and you can
just get away with that forever. no
repercussions, then you know it's a
pretty good business this robbing
developers that Apple and Google are are
in. And uh you know that needs to
change. Uh you guys have spent um a good
amount of time on the hill advocating
for the Open Markets Act and some of the
other antitrust legislation. I wonder if
you guys have detected sort of any any
changes in Congress or more willingness
to push this given the amount of money
that some of the t the tech platforms
spend on lobbying. I think there's a
growing realization that monopolization
of markets breaks everything uh that
makes America America. You know, America
is what it is the most vibrant economy
in the world by far. Uh because of
competition, because of opportunity that
exists here and uh and because of the
freedoms we have here. You know, it's
the most vibrant democracy and the
strongest power because of our freedom
of speech and all of our other rights
protected by the constitution. If you
have two companies, they're highly
politically active and politically
aligned. I mean, against the
administration in reality, although they
seem to be co trying to cozy up or be
seen as cozying up now. Um, then, you
know, they're not only going to
monopolize digital revenue from digital
goods, they're also going to monopolize
speech, and they're going to decide
who's allowed to say what. Um, you know,
Apple threatened to kick Twitter off of
uh off of the app store, meaning block
Twitter from 1.4 billion iOS users
worldwide. Um, because they were
concerned that Elon Musk might not
censor the right people. I mean, that
was before the election. Um, now Apple
was taking a whole different line, you
know, throwing up contra, you know, uh,
inauguration contributions and so on and
so on, but like these companies are
malevolent and they need to be stopped.
And uh you know a monopoly will crush
everything. Um and the bigger risk isn't
only of monopolization of the markets.
It's that and you see these big law
pitches and lobbyist pitches of this all
the time. They want to create an unholy
alliance between big tech and big
government um in order to further
entrench and make big tech unassalable.
And you know there's a word for that in
in world discourse. That word is
fascism. Um, and though it I don't think
that that's actually the immediate goal
of anybody at Apple or Google. That is
the system that they're that they are
working together to create uh in the way
that they're lobbying and trying to
influence government to give them
completely unchecked power over
business. Okay. Well, thank you so much
for sharing some thoughts.