Video ID: mJO10CL-FGI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJO10CL-FGI
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 789
============================================================

[music]
I'm excited to welcome air from sim.ai
who is fresh off of a series A led by
Standard Capital. Amamir, thanks for
joining.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> Yeah, it's great to be back.
>> Appreciate it. Why don't you maybe kick
it off and tell us what is SIM.AI?
>> Yeah, so SIM is a platform to build AI
agents. So, it's sort of a Figma-like
canvas with cursor style side prompt
where you could build workflows uh by
dragging and dropping or typing in
natural language to sort of build an
agent to do anything either inside of
your product or to automate tasks for
you in the background.
>> Awesome. And give us the current state
of the business.
>> Yeah, so we just crossed 60,000
developers on our cloud platform and
we're one of the fastest growing open
source workflow builders out there right
now. Uh so we just crossed 17 and a
halfk [snorts] GitHub stars which is
pretty exciting. So, I guess those are
those are the main things we care about.
>> Yeah, that's amazing. Especially because
you guys were just in the spring batch
not too long ago, right?
>> Yeah, it feels like yesterday.
[laughter]
Kind of was.
>> Yeah, it kind of was like yesterday.
That's awesome. Maybe take us back to
the early days. How How did you and your
co-founder Wi first meet?
>> Yeah. So, we actually met in Berkeley.
Uh I was coming, it was my sophomore
year, right, right before uh my
sophomore year started and I was it was
COVID my freshman year. So, I came to
Berkeley and I knew nobody and I was
paired with my roommate uh at the time
who I didn't know either and his best
friend from high school was wed. So, we
got to know each other like right before
school started and he was kind of my
first friend at Berkeley and then we've
just been best friends ever since there.
So, we like spent all of our time
together in undergrad and then once we
graduated last year, uh I knew I wanted
to start a company with him and he was a
year older than me. So, he was working
actually down in LA at Amazon and I
literally called him and I was like,
"Hey, dude, move to SF with me." and
like let's start a company and like on
the phone call he just quit his job and
moved to SF. [laughter]
>> How long had you guys known each other
at that point?
>> Uh for about like three or four years.
>> Okay.
>> But we had pretty much hung out every
single day in that time.
>> And had you built stuff before together
or
>> No, not at all. Not even like as much as
a project. We basically were just best
friends and he was like one of the
smartest people I knew like irrespective
of that. And so we were just like I know
I want to do something with him and so
like just come to SF and actually I kind
of tricked him a little bit. At first I
told him to just come to SF for a month
and I was like just stay with me for a
month and like we'll figure stuff out
and then he ended up just never going
back home and so things was spun out
from there.
>> That's amazing. And so did you guys have
an idea in mind when when you first
decided to start working together or
you're just like this is just a person
that I want to work with and we'll
figure out the rest later?
>> Yeah, it's it's actually kind of funny.
So when he first came to SF, I pitched
him on this idea like pretty much the
first day he landed
>> this specific idea of Sam.
>> Not actually this specific idea, a
previous idea. So the idea was it's kind
of like a dynamic uh landing page where
based on your like browsing history or
if you have like data about someone in a
CRM, you show up to a landing page and
right now if you're on a landing page
like it speaks to the general audience,
right? And then typically you try and
optimize like the language or like the
positioning of certain things on the
page based on, you know, like the
overall metrics, but I was like, what if
we could customize a website just for
one person? Um, and then we ended up
just trying to sell that to sales and
marketing companies, but that was like
kind of the worst idea just because we
knew nothing about sales and marketing.
We didn't understand their problems
whatsoever. And so the first day he
landed in San Francisco, I'm like, I
have this idea for a company like it's
going to be huge. And he was like, I'm
in. And then he just quit his
want to spend the next like 20 years of
our life, you know, doing this. So we
were just like, all right, let's figure
out another idea. And and was that an
idea that you guys had applied to YC in
the past with?
>> Yeah, so that was actually the first
time we applied to YC and I remember
that was like probably a reality check
for us. I think it was sort of the end
of November. I want to say it was like
November 30th
>> and we got on an interview actually with
Michael Cyel and uh Diana and they asked
us like, "Oh, so what do you guys do?"
And we were like, "Explain to them this
whole platform." And basically we spent
the whole 10 minutes trying to explain
what the what the app did because it was
so confusing.
>> And I think eventually after that call
we just realized like we didn't know
what we were doing.
>> Yeah.
>> And so we spent all of December
basically trying to figure out what we
should build. And I kept coming back to
this idea of building agents because
that last company we built um or the
startup that we working on was called
Scalemont. And when we were working on
Scalemont, we basically had like
hundreds of agents like an imagine an
agent that like did research on your
background and then try to create like a
hero section, right? And so you'd have
to create like all of the text for the
hero section. Then you want to generate
images, right? Because like typically
website has images. So then you have to
go have a small LLM that generates a
prompt for an image generator. Then that
goes passes it to the image generator.
Then that image generator gets you the
image. You put it back in your website.
You create like all these case studies
and footer sections and everything. So
we it was just such a complicated
overengineered project but we realized
like actually the biggest problem of
that project or like the thing that we
cared about the most was building agents
and just between W and I it was hard for
us to even understand like hey did you
already build an agent that did that
thing like that research that person and
got their history or like maybe their
background and so that was kind of the
idea for SIM where it's like hey why
don't we have this platform where we can
actually visually orchestrate these
agentic workflows as opposed to just
writing it in code. And so that was
actually the birth of sim.
>> So it came out of your own problem.
Was there like a light bulb moment that
like this is what we should build or
like how did you realize this would be
the thing?
>> Sort of. It wasn't necessarily like one
moment, but I remember we spent all of
December of last year basically trying
to find what we were going to build. And
I remember we were looking into
everything basically like healthcare,
logistics, all sorts of stuff. But I was
like, I don't know anything about
healthcare, nor do I know anything about
logistics or any other industry. I
basically only know things about LLMs
and building agents. So, I remember it
was January 5th and I was like, I'm a
super big power user of Figma and I love
Jupyter Notebook. And I was like, I
would just love if those products were
just like one and the same. I don't know
what that would look like, but like I
kind of want to figure it out. And so it
was January 5th and I was like, "And I
want to build a platform and I want it
to be open source and I want you to
build agents in sort of this Figma
environment." Well, he's like, "That
sounds really stupid." And I was like,
"Yeah, you're right, but like let's just
try it for 5 days and let's see what
happens." He was like, "All right, I'll
let you do that while he does some
research." So I spent five days working
on it and on January 10th while lead was
like, "All right, you're dumb enough to
do this for five days. I'll join you on
January."
like this is idiotic and like no one's
going to use this.
>> Yeah.
>> I was like, you're right, but it's
something I care about. Honestly, if
nothing else, I was going to build
agents on that platform just because we
saw the pain from our previous project.
>> And what's funny was when we started, he
was like, "What's your goal with this?"
And I was like, "If we get this to 100
GitHub stars, I'll be like super happy."
He's like, "A 100's way too many." I was
like, "Actually, you're right. So, if it
gets to 10, I'll be satisfied." And that
was back in January. So, it's just un
it's we wouldn't even have believed if
you had told us that we were at like 500
stars now um in January.
>> What was the moment after you decided to
pivot to this where you were like I
think this is actually the thing that's
going to stick.
>> I think once W joined. Uh
>> okay.
>> I think
>> so he wasn't a believer but you were
convinced at that point. [laughter] I
think I'm more optimistic and I think
Wed's more of a skeptic and so I think
once Wed gives me the go-ahad um that we
can like work on something then I think
that's like a sign that it's actually
going to succeed. Um and so I think once
he joined in January I think from that
point onwards there wasn't a single day
we looked back. We were just building
from then until now.
>> Any advice that you would give to people
going through that same you know kind of
pivot journey and and hopefully help
them find their way out sooner.
>> Yeah definitely. I think the biggest
thing for us while we were pivoting was
we were trying to find perhaps reach too
far away from what we understood.
>> You know, I I think as an engineer, we
often underplay what we understand um
just like about coding or just about the
world. And if you have to if you're
really really critical about what you
understand perhaps better than others um
then you should lean into that more. So
I think oftentimes at least when we were
pivoting um you know we were looking for
all these far-fetched ideas but what we
should have done is just looked at what
we had already built together um and
just try things you know just ship ideas
and you know you can iterate like 15
times before landing on an idea and I
think that's one of the things about YC
that I really loved is just like that
openness to to pivoting.
>> Yep. had you tried a bunch of the other
like workflow agent builder tools out
there and discovered that they weren't
right for you or talk about your
experience there and how you look to
differentiate the product that that
you're building with SIM.
>> Yeah, it's a good question. I I think
when we started um I had tried a couple
of other workflow tools, but it sort of
felt to me like the traditional workflow
automation that had existed for
basically decades. Actually, workflow
software is not new. It's been around
for, you know, decades. Um, and so when
I tried them, I felt that they were not
AI native in the way that I wanted them
to be. For instance, if I want to
orchestrate one agent to do the same
thing a hundred times over and then, you
know, make like some synthesized
response for me or if I want to even
build a workflow with natural language,
um, some of these things that I felt
like were already accessible in
programming were not accessible on
workflow platforms. And so I figured
that workflows are kind of the next
paradigm for programming where we're
kind of moving up the abstraction stack.
You know, you can see this with cursor
where you know most of code today is
just generated by an LLM. And I think in
the future that actually most um
software will be orchestrated inside of
workflows rather than just in pure code.
Mhm. Yeah, that's a common trend that
we've seen where everything just keeps
becoming more and more abstracted and
you get further away from the pixels or
the actual source code and um it seems
like you guys are are really uh leading
that trend for a lot of people.
>> Totally. I mean, if you were going back
to like the 50s or the 60s and you told
people they wouldn't be programming with
punch cards, they'd be like, "What does
programming even look like?" Right. And
so, obviously, like the modality in
which we've programmed has changed a lot
over the course of history. And I feel
like this paradigm is the next step. And
I feel like we're always going towards a
path of least resistance. And if we can
truly be the easiest way to ship some
software, some some agent, then why
wouldn't we be the next paradigm?
>> Yeah. Um you would have been really
happy getting to 100 GitHub stars.
You're at like 17,000 more than that
right now. Yeah.
>> Not that much later, you know. So you've
really been able to figure that out and
like your open source traction has
really been blowing up. How'd you pull
that off? Especially for any other
founders out there building open source
products and that maybe are in your your
shoes early on where like they'd love to
just get to 100. What advice would you
have for them right now?
>> Yeah, I mean I would say two things. Um
the first thing is that we found a space
where first of all the other platforms
are not fully open source. Uh and we
really actually wanted to we believed in
the ethos of being open source. um which
is that you know we we think that in the
future basically LLMs are going to just
be able to oneshot some codebase like
imagine if you had AGI and you gave it
some task it could probably go and
replicate an entire application within
minutes. So code is no longer the
proprietary part of a company anymore as
it used to be. We also wanted to kind of
like give this software away to the
world because we figured that the
platform is much more valuable once it's
interconnected and kind of having this
network of people on it as opposed to
the workflows running themselves. But we
should not sort of constrain the
workflows away from the open source
community in the sense that we want
people to build on top of SIM. We kind
of want it to be like the foundational
workflow platform and then everyone can
customize it to their own needs. Like
for instance, if you're bringing it into
healthcare or into logistics, then you
can just like take out pieces of sim and
put your own layers on top of it. Uh,
and we're kind of this like underlying
engine. Um, so that was kind of like we
wanted to just stick to the open- source
philosophy and I feel like that actually
bodess well with the community because I
I feel that developers are honest and
they can kind of see through BS a little
bit. And so if you're just truly open
source and you actually are just Apache
2.0 know or MIT license and you give
your code away for free. I think people
will be responsive to that. And then the
second thing is like actually just
finding developers where they are. Um so
we posted a lot on hackernews. We went
to like Twitter and LinkedIn. I mean
LinkedIn less important but you know
Twitter and Hacker News and we kind of
just put our project out into the world.
Uh and the response was obviously great
as you can tell. Um so we're kind of
continuing in that direction. And how
are you guys you hit number one on
GitHub trending and and that seemed to
really boost a lot of your your stars
and adoption. Were there any strategies
that you used to to make that happen or
was that just kind of luck that a lot of
people got into it at the same time?
>> Yeah, it's really interesting. This kind
of trending concept uh is something that
we've been really focused on um in the
course of sim and what we've realized is
the majority of our stars come while
you're on GitHub trending. And to be
completely frank, we weren't even really
sure what was GitHub trending before we
had started our project. And then I
realized later that GitHub trending is
super important.
>> Um because when you're featured on
GitHub trending, typically you'll get
anywhere between like, you know, 250 to
like thousands of stars in a single day.
Our kind of drive and our uh launch
schedules are always like around how we
can optimize for GitHub trending. Um,
and so how we basically got in there is
just to organize like some orchestrated
launch like to let a big community of of
like developers know about your product
all at the same time. So if we go out on
hacker news and on product hunt and on
Twitter kind of all at the same time and
you coordinate these launches, then you
can start to develop some traction
around your GitHub repo.
>> How have you been able to convert some
of this open source interest into like
actual paying customers?
>> Well, we have a cloud platform. Uh, so
sim.ai AI is our cloud platform and it's
linked in our GitHub repo. And so if you
actually map um charts of our um like
our GitHub stars to the new users on the
platform, it kind of follows the same
pattern. Uh there obviously some
external factors that'll make the cloud
platform grow much faster. Like for
instance, if some workflow or AI
influencer finds out about, you know,
SIM and they make a video about it,
that's kind of a channel that typically
goes to the cloud platform as opposed to
the open source repo. But originally,
pretty much all of our new users trended
in the same exact way with our GitHub
stars. And so we could basically map
like a onetoone plot with um our GitHub
stars and and our cloud users. And then
once they come to our cloud platform,
then it's sort of just easier to get set
up on SIM to build an agent as opposed
to running it locally. Of course, you
still have that option, but for people
that want a little more convenience,
they'll just come up to the cloud
platform and then pay for inference on
there.
>> Cool. And any kind of general advice for
open source founders?
>> The first thing I think is to be like
truly open source. Um, I feel like
people are worried that their code is
proprietary or that, you know, someone's
going to steal their idea. Um, but no
one can steal your vision. And so you
can put all your code out there and we
know that there are competitors that are
looking at our platform and definitely
want to take ideas from there, but we're
not scared whatsoever just because we
have our own vision for what we want the
product to look like and it's going to
change the platform drastically in 3
months from now or six months from now
than it is today. Um, so I'm not
necessarily concerned if someone takes
the product right now because ultimately
we believe in the vision of the company
and no one can take that away from from
your repo. So, you know, the thing that
I would I would advise founders that are
building open source products the most
is to be one truly open source and to
two engage with your community. Um, you
know, we do a lot on like Discord and on
HackerNews and on Twitter. Uh, and so
kind of like constantly talking to your
users and like the dev community and
understanding what they like and what
they don't like about your project can
also help you kind of like learn how to
build a better product, but also build
this community of developers around your
repo.
>> You've grown incredibly quickly and, you
know, had a a lot of success since the
batch, which was, I don't know, seven
months ago or something like that
probably. What's been the hardest part
of the journey for you that you feel
like you've had to overcome so far? I I
think probably the hardest part um is
just forcing ourselves to be better
every single day to never be satisfied.
Um and so for instance like our whole
team will have a discussion about like
the border radius of a button for like 3
hours until someone just like gives up
on on the argument. Um but I I think the
actually the hardest thing is just like
challenging or like being content with
certain things and just like moving
forward as quickly as possible. Um, I
think that when you're in YC, you're
kind of in this mode of like launching
all the time. And when we got out of YC,
we were extremely deliberate about
consistently launching, you know,
outside of the batch. And we actually
grew much faster outside of YC than we
did inside of YC. And I think it's
because we kind of treated the batch
just like as a small stepping stone on
where, you know, our company future will
be. Um, so we kind of took those
philosophies from YC of like launching
like very often, being very public, like
building momentum, and we kind of took
that after the batch. Uh, and so I think
that's how we were able to grow so fast.
I mean, I think when we ended the batch,
we were like around 5,000 developers on
the platform, and then now just like 4
months later, we're at like 50 thou or
60,000. Um, so I think it's just about
like constantly launching and like
constantly forcing yourself to just like
be better and improve the platform every
day.
>> Yeah. Are there any tactical things that
you do to like maintain that sense of
urgency
hours in two weeks, we got to hit our
goal. What are some of the things that
you do post batch to be able to keep
that sense of urgency and it sounds like
even ramp it up?
>> Yeah, definitely. Well, we have a launch
calendar and so I think that thing is
something that we stay very true to
where every single two like every two
weeks we launch something. Uh, and
there's a really good quote that I love
and W loves. It was from one of the
creators of Saturday Night Live, and
they said,
>> um, we don't go live because it's ready.
We go live because it's Saturday night.
You know, it's 10:30 p.m. on Saturday
night. And so that's kind of our
philosophy as well. It's like we, you
know, engineers, I think, typically wait
to release product until they think it's
perfect.
>> Uh, and that's just kind of never really
works. And I'm sure you've had
experience with this at your startup as
well. Um, and for us, like we're we're
just consistently launching. So every
two weeks we put something out there. It
doesn't matter if it's almost nothing.
It's just that whatever we have ready.
So it kind of forces everyone. It's a
sort of it's a forcing function to get
everyone around like some product
release.
>> Yeah, that that's great. Um it's an
important muscle to build and and it's
important that it's in the culture
because you know culture drives a lot of
these decisions. Um along those lines, I
know you guys are hiring. Um what is the
ideal person that comes to work at SIM
actually look like? The ideal person
that comes to work at SIM is someone
who's just extremely excited about the
future of AI. Um, something that I
fundamentally believe is that, you know,
a lot of people talk about AGI is
coming, AGI is coming next year, maybe
it's here right now. Uh, it actually
doesn't matter if AGI comes or not. And
my opinion on that is we actually have
solved all the scientific problems that
we've needed to completely revolutionize
the world. I think what's actually left
is an engineering challenge, not a
scientific one. And so I think actually
being able to democratize the way that
developers build agents or actually can
anyone can build agents not just
developers is extremely powerful. And so
I think if you gave a platform like SIM
into the hands of you know people who
have aspired to build agents for their
own personal use cases or inside of
their company um then they could
completely transform their own business
and perhaps like their lives um with
agents. And so I think for someone who
is interested in in the future of AI and
kind of what AI holds from all like the
latest model developments to like new
tools and new stacks, someone who's just
curious about the future of AI and would
like to actually implement that in some
kind of product where we can actually
change the way that people build on top
of AI, I think this is a perfect
candidate for SIM. And so I think
someone generally that's just
intelligent. they don't even have to be
like a Typescript developer or
>> I remember like one of our founding
engineers when he first came you know we
were talking to him about like all these
features we're going to build and um he
was like yeah openly like I literally
don't know TypeScript I know Go and
we're like sure just write it and go and
so [laughter] it's just like it doesn't
necessarily matter about your
capabilities it just matters about your
drive and and how curious you are about
the future.
>> Cool. Yeah, I heard curiosity, people
building on the cutting edge, interest
in AI, and obviously ship, right? Like
that's I'm sure that's a requirement for
you if every two weeks you're shipping,
you know, whether it's ready or not.
>> Yeah. And I think also
>> things that we're launching and it's
because we care so much. Um, and I think
the one thing that you can't replace in
someone is just their passion and their
love for building something. And so I
think if you don't have that, you can't
have anything. Um, so we're just really
looking for passionate people who really
just want to drive the the future of AI
and this vision that we have.
>> Yeah. Cool. How have you changed as a
founder since starting this?
>> Yeah, I mean [laughter] I think uh I've
changed in a lot of ways. I'm certain
I'm certain that W lead has changed in a
lot of ways. And I think the main way
that I've probably changed um is
realizing that it takes 10 years um to
do to build something great. And so, you
know, when you're first getting started,
you might think that things are going to
take um a shorter amount of time than
than they are. And I think Brian Chesky
always brings up that quote, which is
like people um overestimate what they
can do in a week and like underestimate
what they can do in 10 years or it's
like a quarter or 10 years or something
like that. Um but I I like fundamentally
believe in that. And so I think that
what we like really aspire to do is just
show up every single day. Um so we come
into the office at 9:00 a.m. We
typically leave around like 10 p.m. and
we do that 7 days a week. um or six days
a week
having that I I think if you do that
every single day it just compounds your
your growth um over a long period of
time. So it's it's also about having
balance. I think a lot of people
especially in YC when you're in the
batch you're like constantly shift.
It's really important to have balance
like find time to go to the gym, find
time to eat healthy, cook the food
you're going to, you know, typically eat
and to keep like a healthy lifestyle.
You have to make sure that you're taking
care of yourself as much as you are the
company. Uh, and so I think that like my
mentality had to mature a little bit to
be, you know, like just a a good founder
as opposed to when it was just W and I
in my apartment and just like sleeping
on the couch and eating whatever and
never going to the gym. So I think if we
want to operate for the next 10 or 15
years, we have to keep this consistent
and healthy lifestyle. any advice for
for founders that are are watching this
and and hoping to follow in your
footsteps?
>> Again, as I said, just staying true to
yourself? Um, so, you know, Wed and I um
we always were just like being honest
with ourselves, being honest with each
other, um being healthy and just like
listening to our own like minds and
bodies and and pushing things of course
in the way that we, you know, we both
wanted. Um but kind of the important
thing for for both of us is just to like
be very honest about what we understand,
especially what we don't understand.
uh and just to keep learning and I think
um one actually big thing that I would
say is that oftent times in the past I
struggled with optimizing for like
short-term growth or short-term
learnings whereas we should kind you're
you're kind of in a balance of
optimizing between like long-term
learnings and like long-term growth and
so I think if you think of things in the
timeline of like 10 or 20 years you
would much rather optimize for being
like constantly learning for the next 9
and a half years as opposed to spending
the next half year doing something that
perhaps like you know you're not
interested or you wouldn't be doing. So
for instance like the sales and
marketing company that we tried to start
you know we were kind of too
shortsighted in the sense of like could
we see ourselves doing this in like the
worst moment of our lives in like six
years time and if the answer is no then
you'll probably fail at that six year
mark
>> and the thing that wid and I realized
when we started this company is like we
could be doing this for five or 10 or 15
years with completely no success and we
would just be having so much fun doing
it that we would keep doing it And I
think it's even important not to lose
sight of that. For instance, I spent a
lot of time selling and not programming
in the past couple of months. And I
realized that the thing I love most is
programming. And that's also the thing
that I'm best at. So I got back to
programming. And I think we're always
trying to optimize for putting ourselves
in a position where we're like learning
for the long term and like trying to
succeed for ourselves in the long term.
>> Well, thank you so much for joining.
>> Thanks so much for having me. Really
appreciate your story.
>> Thanks.
[music]
>> [music]