Title: The Exit Interview with Jonathan Kanter
Video ID: NCY0IUaiLOA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NCY0IUaiLOA
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T17:59:06Z
Duration: PT14M25S
Views: 465
Likes: 5
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 358

Description:
Brody Mullins, Author of The Wolves of K Street interviews Jonathan Kanter, the Former Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division, US DOJ.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So, I was hoping AI would give me a full
head of hair, but uh alas, we have You
got a cooler picture than mine, though.
I need to get one of those. Very cool.
Uh well, thank you for having us. Um I
think we're have a brief conversation uh
about uh little tech and how to protect
little tech. And I want to start off by
asking you um during your time uh at
DOJ, what are things that you did the
best that helped the little tech
industry? Yeah, I think the best thing
we can do is make big tech compete
harder and provide more avenues for
opportunities for little tech companies
and all tech companies to compete. So we
brought um you know uh righteous um and
principal cases against Google, Apple,
but we also um brought cases involving
United Healthcare uh involving real
estate algorithms, a wide range of areas
where I truly believe we can we need
disruption and innovation coming from
new sources. And I think we want to do
is we want to create avenues for um new
startups, new businesses, new companies
to emerge and go public. I want the Mag
Seven to be the Mag 17.
Uh if you had another year or if you
were Gail Slater, what would you be
doing right now on this front? Um we'd
be fighting and winning our cases, which
I hope they're going to continue doing
for us. Um because I think uh they're
strong and they're principled. Um I
think there's a lot um we need to do um
in the tech space. Uh I think there's a
lot we need to do in the healthc care
space. Uh agriculture and defense. I
think those are the areas of the economy
that um strike me as as the most
concentrated and um necessitating the
most um work from a competition
perspective. And what do you think the
next big case will be or the next big
area? Um may maybe you know too much to
answer that question. Yeah. Well, I I'll
speak, you know, um based as a as a
private citizen now, um based on my
observations, but I think
we so we we brought a number of
gamechanging cases, whether it's uh
ticket master or Apple or Google,
um the United case, um the real page
case, the Visa case. I think we are we
need to see those through, right? I it's
it's important to launch the cases, but
it's just as important to litigate them
and win. um and really force um change
that looks forward. Um and so I think
there's a lot of work to do there. Um
and then I think the if I were looking
ahead, I think healthcare is the area
that um where I see the most surface
area for interest in antitrust. You've
talked before about resources in terms
of fighting big tech, but if if DOJ goes
after healthcare, how do you think you
get the resources to prosecute those
cases against an industry that has just
as much money as tech? I think it's a
it's a um there are a few different
dimensions to this. First is
prioritization. Um, and so, uh, part of
the job that I had to do was determine
how are we going to take our scarce
resources and invest them wisely on
behalf of our client, which is the
public. And we picked the biggest cases
in the biggest industries that have the
greatest impact on as uh on the greatest
number of people. Um, and so just case
selection alone uh, and how you manage
your cases is really one way to manage
to do that. Second is um and I want to
talk a little bit about government
efficiency because it's something that's
coming up quite a bit. Uh I will tell
you this um I ran the antitrust division
for over three years. Um each year we
ran it at zero cost to the taxpayer and
with a budget surplus. Um we did it
solely based on Hartscott Rodino merger
filings. We ran it within our means, but
we did it um ambitiously and we did it
efficiently and we did it with a sense
of direction and purpose and that
allowed us to use our resources and we
worked really hard and we did it with
fewer people than the antitrust division
had in 1979. Let me say though that we
are still incredibly underststaffed. We
uh the antitrust division is still
incredibly understaffed and they need
more resources in order to take on the
world's largest monopolies because this
is a a little tech conference and
obviously um a lot of the great um
innovators that Y combinator um helps uh
incubate. I will say that I think we
need to look to technology um in order
to be more efficient. Um I think there's
a lot we can do particularly on
discovery uh data analysis using um the
new exciting tools that are coming out
uh that are based on AI and other uh
innovations in order to keep pace um
with the litigation workload. Um back to
little tech how can little tech be
protected right now during the AI
revolution. So my view is that um
antitrust is most important at the times
of major um technological transformation
and change. Uh it is to me not
surprising that um the heyday of the
AT&T antitrust case we saw the emergence
of IBM at the heyday of the IBM
antitrust activity. We saw the emergence
of Microsoft. During the heyday of the
Microsoft um antitrust case we saw the
emergence of the internet and Google. Um
when uh incumbents who are large and
have these massive platforms feel
threatened by new technological changes,
they often invest not in innovation but
in business practices designed to
increase moes and make it harder for
others to compete. Uh my view is that is
when antitrust is most important. Uh
it's most important to make sure that
we're protecting um the next uh
opportunity uh for disruption paradigm
shifts particularly in technology and
network industries. And so my view is
that um this is the most important time
and as we think not just about the cases
we're bringing but the remedies uh that
we're going to ask for in an antitrust
case, it's absolutely critical that we
look ahead to where the market is going
and craft remedies and cases to make
sure that the next um technological
change and shift is protected.
Um some Republicans would say that it's
not the government's job to meddle in
the marketplace to protect an industry.
What would you say to that? Um,
antitrust is not a regulation. It's law
enforcement. Um, and we need lines on
the road. Um, you can't have competition
without competitors and you can't have
market uh markets without participants.
And so antitrust is about making sure
that we have um the the the excitement,
the motivation that flows from rivalry
um to uh to force us to motivate us to
be better as a society. it it is a um
surgical tool against the backdrop of an
otherwise you know hatchetlike
regulation and I think uh what I hear a
lot from folks right of center as well
as left of center is that um that if you
can um have strong antitrust enforcement
uh it many instances will mitigate if
not eliminate the need for invasive
regulation.
Uh so Donald Trump and his some of his
administration officials sort of talk
the talk on big tech but then on
inauguration day we all saw the big tech
CEOs uh at the inauguration. What did
you make of that? It was I I it was
concerning um bone chilling not just
because of the weather. Um it was it was
frightening. Right. I think, you know,
we talk about antitrust and corporate
power um because we want a just economy,
one that creates opportunity and
freedom, but corporate power can lead to
political power. And I think we've seen
um you know, seeing those you know CEOs
and um you know, in the ratunda um not
just um there but you know, front and
center um I think you know speaks
volumes about the degree of of power
that companies have. Um I think um
average citizens should have um as much
if not more to say um than you know
large CEOs of big companies. Uh and I
think if we want a democracy, we need to
make sure that everyone has the
opportunity to participate. And if um it
it's quite a strong statement to see all
these people outside freezing um and um
while um you know the people who uh run
these big companies who have a lot to
gain from government policy inside cozy
and warm. Um, and in his first two
months in office, what signs have you
seen out of the FTC or DOJ that are
positive or negative in terms of moving
this agenda forward? Yeah, I mean, I
listen, I think, you know, by and large
directionally, I I remain very
optimistic about the trajectory of
antitrust enforcement. Um, in part for
the reasons we discussed, which is that
antitrust is about lines on the road.
It's about um, you know, basic rules
that uh, are important for markets to
function. It's about law enforcement
rather than regulation. Um I I think we
have seen a transition from an ideology
um that um viewed uh antitrust
enforcement with hostility over the last
few um administrations to one that has a
is more in line with what I believe
where I believe the public resides which
is that um holding big companies to
account through antitrust enforcement uh
when necessary um is a valuable and
important tool and one that people care
about. So I remain cautiously
optimistic. Um but I I also am mindful
that you know each um leader of their
agency whether it's Assistant Attorney
General Slater or Chair Ferguson will
need to do it their way uh in the with
their vision um and chart their own
path. But I I think it's largely my hope
is going to be largely cons um
consistent in terms of the trajectory
even if even if they do it in their own
way with their own priorities and and
along those lines what did you think of
the administration's proposal on Google
remedies?
So uh we made a very strong proposal um
and the new administration largely
maintained most of the core principles
of that proposal. Um there were some
tweaks um but I I you talked a lot about
the importance of AI. They they
backtracked a little bit. They
backtracked a little bit which I was a
little bit disappointed to see but um
but ultimately um they have to you know
make their own assessments and do what
they believe is correct. I do um firmly
believe however that um whatever
remedies a court imposses in an
antitrust case including that specific
case need to think about um creating
opportunities for competition in AI and
to make sure that query based um search
which is likely you know if you think
about where query based um search
competitors are going to come from where
the new advertising threats they're
likely to come from companies that are
building on AI high stacks and keeping
uh the lanes of competition open for
those companies is really important. Uh
you mentioned Andrew Ferguson uh last
week or the week before he was quoted in
um Axios is telling a bunch of bankers
uh this is not the Bush administration.
What do you think he meant by that?
Well, I think um there's a sense and
incorrect incorrectly in my view that
antitrust is a is a switch that flips on
and off depending on who's in power. Um,
and it's just not, it doesn't neatly
divide along party lines the way perhaps
some people think. Um, and and I will
say that in my experience when I was in
office, uh, I found a lot of support um,
from folks um, who are right of center
and I also found disagreement from folks
who are left of center from time to
time. Uh, it just doesn't neatly divide
along party lines. I think if you take a
step back and you look at where the
country is today, where the law is
today, where lawmakers are today, where
stakeholders are today in terms of the
um the broader public, in terms of the
entrepreneurial community, there's a lot
of support for vigorous antitrust
enforcement because it is seen as um a
lifeline uh for competition,
entrepreneurial opportunity, growth at a
time when we desperately need that and
it's seen as a pathway for innovation.
You've also talked the about the lack of
trust in experts uh these days. You gave
an important speech I think last fall
about that topic. Is there anything
specific that can be done or have you
seen any progress in that regard?
There's a great book called The Walls of
K Street. Um I recommend everybody read
it. Uh and uh but but yes, I think um
you know, we need to distinguish between
expertise and advocacy. And um I think
um I crave expertise. I think it's
extremely important. Uh, but companies
have done, and Brody, you probably know
more about this than maybe anybody on
the planet, uh, have done too much to
co-opt and capture academia and expert
voices in ways that distort, um, the
legitimate and free exchange of ideas
uh, in the search of truth. And I think
we need to do a much better job. and I
delivered a speech which was effectively
a call to action telling um the industry
that it is going to lose credibility um
permanently uh unless it gets its act
together and I think it's now or never.
Uh I think we have about a minute left,
a little less than a minute. Um so in
that time if done over since this is an
exit interview, what's one thing you
would have done better and one thing you
would have changed?
Um, so you know, when I when I look out
ahead, I I I see all the things I wanted
to do that we couldn't. Um, I think
there's a lot more to do in healthcare.
Um, and um um so uh you know, I wish we
could have we could have gone faster. I
wish we could have gone faster in in
rebuilding our technology stack. Um we
got um some money to do that. We worked
quickly, but uh there's a lot more to
do. Um, and what was the other question?
What what we could have, uh, what do you
think the biggest mistake you made was?
Oh,
uh, uh, I feel like I used to always say
when I was in office that, um, there'll
be time enough for counting when the
dealing's done. And I feel like the
dealing just finished, so I'm going to
I'm going to wait and um um regroup on
that later. All right. Yeah. Uh, well,
thank you very much. Okay. Thank you.