Title: Fireside with Teresa Ribiera, EVP, European Commission for Clean, Just & Competitive Transition
Video ID: p3L5zATA_HY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p3L5zATA_HY
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:00:02Z
Duration: PT21M3S
Views: 85
Likes: 0
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 445

Description:
Interviewed by Melissa Maxman — Managing Partner, Cohen & Gresser

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So, madame executive vice president, I
am it's such an honor for me to
interview you. As I said before, um
we're I want to focus first on the
digital markets act, the DMA. Um as
Luther said, I happen to represent Duck
Duck. Go is are my are my clients here?
I guess not.
um they um we rely on the DMA quite a
bit
and midway through your predecessor
commission commissioner
vestiger's term she was asked what was
her biggest regret and she said not
taking bold enough action under the DMA
and I am going to ask you what is your
attitude towards bold action under the
DMA Okay. Oh, thank you for the question
and thank you for the invitation. I'm a
little bit each one has her own profile.
So, I'm a little bit more like the type
of transatlantic partnership that the
previous picture was
showing legal from Denmark being
combined with your little tech. So,
these two pictures of the two of us
working together. It's a small job, but
it is important. I think that the reason
why we need to take bold action under
the DMA is because we think that as
responsible for this public functions.
We need to be sure that opportunities
for
innovation for new
startups for new people challenging the
incumbents count on um room so to
perform but also can count on an
administration different administrations
that cooperate to ensure that this may
happen and um probably she uh she did
what she had to do. I think that she was
very modest when humble when saying that
because it was under her leadership that
the DMA was adopted and it is not so
easy to figure out how we combine the
type of governance the type of u powers
the type of uh deduce and don'ts that
the different companies and the criteria
to identify the gatekeepers. Now we
think that it is easy or we don't like
or whatever but it was not so easy to to
to have this there. So I think that she
was brave. I'm going to be brave. Of
course I'm going to be brave. I'm I'm
bound by the law. I think that it is
good to provide this sense of
reliability and
commitment to to the defense of um
different um users but also to the
creation of a space for innovation and
new people entering into this market.
Thank you. Um let's turn let's get
granular. Let's turn turn to what areas
we may see your boldness in action. And
I want to start off by noting that your
um title has changed. Commissioner
Vvestiger was the commissioner of
competition. Your title is the executive
vice president of environmental justice
and competition transition. How will
your enforcement approach differ? and
will you take more aggressive steps such
as structural remedies or swi swift
reform actions to achieve your
goals? I guess that today's world
is a very different world from the the
one that we experienced 10 years ago. Um
we are speaking about market forces that
already exist. I don't I cannot figure
out how a company that in intends to be
successful longlasting successful
company cannot take into consideration
the impact on the society of what they
produce and the demands of the society
to to to count on good product services
but also to to pay attention on the
welfare of the society or the fact that
uh well there are limited resources. So
if there are limited resources and the
whole world intends to increase the
quality of life, it is quite wise to
think about green environment, climate,
all those things that seem to be quite
revolutionary but that are not
revolutionary are just common sense data
and reason.
So when we take into consideration the
different market forces to assess any
individual case including those
happening under the different
markets. These are references that need
to be taken into account as well as the
different time scales in terms of
identifying how productive, effective or
um
anti-competition any behavior may be.
And somehow this is reflected in the in
the title of of my mission. So yes, I
deal with competition policies. in my
mission letter says that I need to be
sure that we can put in place an
evolution of the way we um implement the
competition tools to to be ready to
defend the rights of the consumers to
ensure a level playing field a well
functioning open economy to improve
transparency and dedication
and um and this is what we intend to do.
I take it from your remarks that you
don't believe that bold enforcement of
the DMA is contrary to any of those
things. And I'd like to compare that
with the signals you're getting right
now from the United States. Um, do you
interpret the omission of the DMA and
Vice President Vance AI speech in Paris
and the US's restraint on criticizing
the DMA as a positive sign?
I mean are you assume are you seeing any
common ground emerge with Washington on
reigning in big tech? I know what the
European consumers
uh think and say. I know that they think
that this is very
useful things that they can use. The
digital world helps to improve the
quality of their products, the way they
relate to the others and um the capacity
to keep on improving uh their own
business. as users or the services they
can provide if they are providing
services in the digital context. But
they also would like to count on an
administration that pays attention to
ensure a level playing field fairness in
the way they they they can accept uh
these um services without putting at
risk I don't know privacy different
rights the possibility to choose between
different providers suppliers and so on.
So we had a difficulty to identify how
we could enter into that and um when
this conversation started a long time
ago during the Trump one
administration it was already clear that
this type of feelings sentiments
expectations were very present in the
American society too. Mhm. So we thought
that it was good to learn from each
other to identify how we each of us
could protect the consumers through the
regulation and the strong enforcement of
the regulation and that's what we have
been doing along along these
years more than 300 million
Europeans
to rely on
Google or rely on Meta
for any type of provision of services or
access to many different aspects of
their day-to-day life. So these 300
million
people expect from their administration
to protect their rights.
Um when um implementing the DMA, we also
opened the space for small
very valuable digital companies, many of
them coming from the US that um identify
that they can work and um and develop
their own products and uh that the
consumers may identify their products as
most preferable products, more
preferable products than the products
being provided. provided by traditional
incumbents. So I think that there may be
some
misunderstandings because in fact it is
not against anyone. It is to protect the
rights of our citizens the same way it
could be the right or the way to protect
the rights of the American citizens and
the American companies. And um and I
guess that uh this is something that if
it has been somehow
misinterpreted should be clarified but
uh it's so good to count on American
companies developing this business to
perform so well to have new challenges
contesting the existing ones providing
new services it's exciting I think it is
thrilling I think it is great news but
um I guess that um I have to ensure that
my children may
challenge their parents their mom in
case they find ways to solve the
problems in a better way. So the same
for the digital world. Well, picking up
on that leveling the playing field for
startups. I know there are many people
in here which want you to elaborate on
that a little bit. How do you plan to
ensure your policies help startups and
scaleups compete rather than
inadvertently burden them? In other
words, can measures like the DMA really
empower the next generation of startups
which I think all of our children are
getting involved
with. My impression is that this has
already started when the application
with the application of the DM MA and
the DSA. Mhm. The way we try
to
provide guidelines on how to ensure
interoperability between the different
players. The way we um ask uh to open a
space for uh new services using the
existing platforms.
The way we ask for transparency on how
it
works helps to identify room for this um
uh startups. And in fact, we see a trend
where smaller companies um get a bigger
share just because just because this
culture of compliance, this culture of
um common learning, the learning curve
to identify how we can uh apply this uh
this new regulation
um offers an opportunity to rebalance a
little bit the the share of the market
of these of these existing big players.
and provides room for the new ones or
the smaller ones entering into the
market and um and I think that this is
good. It is quite appreciated by
consumers as I said but I think that it
is rapidly
identified by these smaller companies.
So to make their offer to the general
public and to get additional room to
develop their own business case and the
capacity to innovate and to perform in a
different way in many occasions to
compete on a briefer basis and get
better results. So that's what all of
this is about since the very beginning.
I I want to pick up on a theme that I
see is running through all of your
answers and it's that tension the
balance between regulation and
innovation which we all struggle with
all over the world and how do you view
this balance in your new role or not so
new anymore sorry and um can Europe be a
global regulator and a tech innovator?
What what are your views on the
regulatory safeguards and how they can
coexist with an environment where
startups can flourish? To me, good
regulation is
a a very relevant basis, a very relevant
ground to ensure innovation. It is not
the only factor. Of course, you need to
count on educated communities that are
motivated, engaged and have the capacity
to perform better that um have the
appetite to improve the quality of
whatever product, service
or thing being demanded by the society.
But I think that good regulation helps
into this. Um if the regulation is
chaotic, inconsistent, incoherent, if it
is a kind of um how to say wild west
where the most powerful and aggressive
attitude gets the whole market
it could be very difficult to ensure
that there is an open space for
innovators. So I think that we need to
to do and and this is not new. This has
happened during decades in different
fields and different sectors. What it is
new is that we are entering into this
digital era with a a different view, a
different manner to behave, a different
manner to ensure proper governance and
we are learning to do so. This is why
the the value of uh the DMA and the DSA
and the role of the European Union as
front runners in this approach to me is
courageous coming back to my predecessor
Margaret de Bester. But it has also been
a source of inspiration of many in many
different geographies, many different
countries. And what u we think is that
um deepening the cooperation between the
the
national administrations and forces of
of the competition law is is key because
we all are learning in this in this uh
in this new world how we
can
improve the quality. I mean now we could
not think of a a sector
where the national competition authority
could have allowed to do
whatever any any industrial sector no
industrial sector could have been
playing his cards her cards in such a
way and I think that we we find it quite
natural and um and this should be the
case also for the digital one I can't
say I disagree
Um, let's dig down a little bit more
specifically since we're at the Little
Tech Composition Summit. I want to talk
about interoper
interoperability and technical
challenges which is a struggle for
courts in Europe, courts in the United
States. How do you plan to to ensure
effective implementation?
Can you encourage or compel companies to
open up to competitors in a way that is
seamless and safe? In other words,
what's your approach to overseeing the
technical obligations?
Yes. Well, we it's technically of course
it is complicated when we think about an
administration trying to to figure out
and to follow uh how this can be
implemented in such a way that it is
sound both for the company but for the
users and respect the privacy and of the
data and so on. U it requires the
support of uh technical people within
the administration or external support
but being connected with the
administration to count on the right
information and the right uh way forward
not to make any any mistake. At the very
same time I think that this is
feasible. It's not that
uh because it is difficult we are not
going to do it. We need to pay attention
to all the cyber security concerns that
there may be around of the privacy, the
protection of the private data as I
said. But I think that it is important
to ensure this interperability because
at the end it is it is the the bridge to
ensure that there may be a a capacity to
to move and to provide more space for
new for new players and to avoid a
bubble restricted on itself. with no
capacity to to
to open to new to new developments. And
um this
is by definition and I insist on this by
definition one of the goals of the
DMA and in certain cases we may find
some companies where by
definition things should be
non interoperable.
So it may be inevitable to to have a
clash on this. In the couple of minutes
we have left, let me talk about you're
at the beginning of your fiveyear at
least your first fiveyear term.
Um how will you measure
success in your management of the
regulations of the DMA? What indicators
will you tell will tell you that
Europe's digital competition policy is
working? I like biodiversity. You know,
I come from the green world and I like
biodiversity. And here it's more or less
the same thing. A rich
biodiverse digital safe future that
works well in a peaceful manner. So with
not so many clashes around and that
provides room for innovators to
innovate. I think that we will we will
be witnessing in the years to come to
what extent we are able to to draw all
the benefits of this new legislation
regulation and to what extent it is a
way to to manage uh in a much more
friendly common way the challenges that
um the users in at one side or the other
side of the Atlantic
identify
as relevant pieces to to keep on
succeeding. And if you see that the
outcomes are not materializing as you'd
like them to be, are you prepared to
adjust course to what? Adjust your
course. Change change how
you're I mean I think
that this is the beginning of a new era
and we are learning. So it's not it's
not that I am prepared or I'm not
prepared. I'm sure that we need to
adjust course because none of us knows
very well how things may evolve and we
may find something absolutely unexpected
that
um brings us to a new paradigm which is
fantastic that does not fit for purpose
or it can be the other way around that
we identify loopholes that deserve
further attention in order to improve
the quality of u the job and the
products that are being provided to the
to the market. So I think that we need
to be humble to to be transparent to
learn and to adjust in order to improve.
Not in order to go back but in order to
improve. I
think your openness
to adjusting as we embark on this new
era shows that you absolutely have the
temperament to succeed. So but I want
something because I see the signals
coming from the audience. I want a
picture with that uh with that um other
picture in the screen that you and me in
the scene with the picture. I found we
were beautifully represented in those. I
think so. I want one too. Luther, what
are we going to do about that? Can we
Can we put the picture, please? And then
I promise I leave. Oh, there we are. I'm
going to put it up in my office if
you'll put it up in yours. Thank you so
much.