Title: Wither Realignment?
Video ID: p670juDb_5Y
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p670juDb_5Y
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T17:59:17Z
Duration: PT27M8S
Views: 238
Likes: 5
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 706

Description:
With Mike Davis, Founder & President, Internet Accountability Project (IAP), and Doha Mekki, Former Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division, US DOJ. Interviewed by Saagar Enjeti, Co-Host, Breaking Points.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thanks uh Luther for the kind
introduction and uh for all the other
people in the audience, we're going to
try and make this actually a little bit
entertaining, shall we? And actually
maybe make some news or at least very
much get into it. And so uh since we
don't have a lot of time, Mike, I
thought I would start with you uh
basically on the topic that has
dominated Washington conversation on
antitrust now for years, whether this
whole populous left and right thing is
real. And so considering now that we're
in the first few days of the first few
months of the Trump administration, uh,
as Luther mentioned, the firing of some
of those FTC commissioners, what can you
assess right now of the reality of some
sort of horseshoe theory of antirust,
the populist left and right whenever
whenever it comes to protecting small
business and going after big tech, or do
you think that this is a issue that can
be dominated totally by one party where
success will happen? What do you think?
I really think there's a bipartisan
coalition on antirust and you're seeing
the uh populist left and populist right
come together on this. I started the
internet accountability project five
years ago and I was the
first uh we were the first group on the
right to take on a big tech. Oh, Rachel
Board's here. Hello. Uh she helped me
start that. I didn't even see her there.
But um we we started this and when when
Rachel and I were out there, we were
mocked and ridiculed because we took on
Google, Amazon, Facebook, and Apple from
the right. Um Ra Rachel was kind of the
guinea pig. We'd throw out there and do
the media and she would just get
torched. Um but she she's tough as hell,
of course. And so we just kept going at
it. They they laughed at us 5 years ago.
And now we have uh the Trump and Biden
administration bringing antirust
lawsuits against uh the trillion dollar
big tech monopolists like Google on
search and on their advertising online
advertising monopoly and we're winning
these lawsuits. Uh Doha worked for
Jonathan Caner. I think we shocked
Jonathan Caner and Lena Khan, especially
when Crazy Mike Davis endorsed their
nominations. Uh they're like, "What the
hell is going on here? This uh what
what's the what's the move?" But no,
it's there's very much a
bipartisan
consensus and it's growing. Uh you know,
the the Republicans are finally waking
up. I think what was the gateway drug
for Republicans, for conservatives, was
the censor censorship, right? I think
Republicans are generally of the mindset
that big is not bad. Um, you know, I
there are a lot of Republicans. There's
there there is never an antitrust
violation in the hundred years of the
antitrust laws. I think when we saw
these big trillion dollar big tech
platforms have gatekeeping power over
information and commerce and they were
able to use that gatekeeping power to
censor, silence, deplatform and cancel
conservatives and others with whom they
disagree. I think that's when
Republicans started to wake up. Yeah, I
I agree with that. Doa, what what's your
assessment now having been through, you
know, the first couple of months of the
Trump administration? And do you think
that the left and the right can share
the same goals in break up of big tech
even if we're getting there in different
ways? Yeah. So, I mean, it's not
surprising. I agree totally with Mike
that there is um something going on on
the left and on the right. And I can say
that um having spent 10 years at the
Justice Department, including as counsel
to Donald Trump's first head of the
antitrust division, Min Delerim, and
then as Jonathan Caner's principal
deputy before ultimately leading the
place myself, um I think this is real.
Um I think there is a durable concern
and um as Mike noted, I think our
friends on the right come to this from
concern about um deplatforming,
censorship, and so forth. And I think
our friends on the left come to this um
largely uh you know from events that
have roots in the financial crisis. And
I do think that there was a passing of
the torch so to speak from Trump one to
the Biden administration right they
filed um the Google search uh antitrust
monopolization case. Um again I was
there for the tech review. I remember
how groundbreaking that was. Then we
tried it and then we filed cases against
Apple and another case against Google.
um seeking breakups of those monopolies
but also other kinds of monopolies that
affect the tech ecosystem. You know, I I
think that um we are watching uh what's
happening in the first months of the
Trump administration. Um and what I see
is um some factionalism on the right
that looks mighty familiar for those of
us who um experienced um you know some
similar elements on the left, right?
Like there are um two parties. It's the
duopoly of our time and it brings
together um different coalitions and so
we saw folks who were very um
comfortable with the neoliberal
orthodoxy that had set uh in place for
maybe 50 years or so in Washington. Um
and we did things a little bit
differently at the DOJ and again I see
this on the right as well. I think there
are um wonderful antitrust agency heads
for example who see the problem right
like they see the issue of oligarchy of
entrenched corporate power not just in
big tech but in um pharmaceuticals and
agriculture right and other things that
really matter for the participation of
the American people and our market
economy um but there are also um some
folks who um maybe don't want government
at all have deep concerns about the
administrative state and again I I see
this having come from an administration
that had some, you know, similar
factions, right? Um or a similar form of
factionalism. Yeah, totally makes sense.
Mike, uh let's talk about the firing of
these FTC commissioners. Uh do you think
that this is like a Trump admin play to
consolidate power to more furtherly
aggreg, you know, aggressive push
against big tech? Is it what Doha's
alluding to, which is more of a big
business, Wall Street Journal style uh
thing to plate them? How do you view
that action? And how do you think that
that's going to uh work in terms of some
sort of bipartisan push in order to
reign in big tech? Well, I had a big
role in helping Andrew Ferguson get
selected by President Trump to be the
FTC chair and Gail Slater to be the uh
assistant attorney general for the
antitrust division and Mark Meadow uh
for the FTC commissioner. I had no role
in the firings and I didn't know they
were coming. I think it was uh I don't
know what the I don't know what the play
was. I I think it was frankly a stupid
move and it should not have happened.
Interesting. Do what do you think? What
do you think that what what kind of
message does that send to people like
you? You know, I'm I'm a private citizen
now, right? Um and I I was very So,
speak your mind. Yeah.
I um was excited to see what the Trump
administration would do on issues of
corporate power that matter like tech,
like agriculture, etc. And I think that
the firings, you know, setting aside
what anyone might think about the
Supreme Court president, Humphrey's
executive, um I think there are
plurality of views out there. Um even if
you wanted to overturn Supreme Court
president for almost a hundred years
that has said, you know, there's only
four cause removal. Um, it makes it
harder to take on, I think, the very
good targets that the the president
himself identified when he nominated
folks like Mark and Gail and Andrew um
to their very important roles. And so,
like we're seeing that already. Just
yesterday, the FTC's general counsel um
advised that there should be an
administrative stay in the PBM case.
Right. Again, conservatives are um
aligned with folks on the left in terms
of um concern over uh PBMs that make
life-saving medicines more expensive for
people across the country. And so,
again, this is that that dissonance. And
again, I I say this having some sympathy
because we've experienced versions of
this from the left. Yeah, I think Mike,
that's one I want to drill into here for
the audience is these tensions in the
coalition which are difficult to explain
if you're just looking at it from the
outside. So you've also been, you know,
I would say somebody who's endorsed like
some aggressive movement by the Trump
administration, certainly in ends that,
you know, you think uh are justifiable,
but with that type of let's say
pugnacious uh fighting attitude, which
is fine uh whenever you're doing that,
how do you think that that will then
affect if the Trump administration takes
that and you know, as you said, perhaps
pursues a stupid move? Will it destroy
like future cooperation? So, as somebody
who's navigating these waters of
supporting the administration, also
trying to preserve some sort of
bipartisan consensus, how do you think
that that's going to play out? Uh, I
don't. So, whoever advised the president
to fire these FTC commissioners may have
a different motive. Maybe they're trying
to destroy this bipartisan effort to
hold big tech accountable. Maybe they
are doing
Google, Apple, Facebook, or Amazon's
bidding. Who knows? Um but it was it was
a dumb move. Look, the president my
position is that is Humphrey's executive
is clearly wrong. The president is the
head of the executive branch. He is he
has the executive power under article 2
and you can't divide that power among
commissioners on a multi- head
commission. So I think the president has
the legal uh right to fire whoever the
hell he wants in the executive branch.
And uh that that's my legal position. My
policy and political position was this
was a stupid move again because why
would you want to damage the bipartisan
coalition? I I always say this about
President Biden. I was his biggest
opponent on everything except for his
bipartisan antirust law enforcement. I
think that's the one thing that he did
very well with Lena Khan and Jonathan
Cancer and Doha over there. She
continued from the Trump to the Biden
administration. And it requires that
bipartisan coalition to take on the
biggest monopolist in the world, Google,
Amazon, Facebook, and Apple. If you did
not have that bipartisan commission, we
would not have been able to bring these
antitrust lawsuits and and win them,
right? And so that's why I started the
Internet Accountability Project. That's
why Rachel and I took so much grief. I
grew up with red hair. I I really don't
care if I'm getting punched in the face.
Um if I'm not getting punched in the
face, I really don't know what's
happening. And so I I go out of my way
to get punched in the face. But um
Rachel, I I feel I feel sorry for
Rachel. She's much more attractive and
she was getting punched in the face
every day when we started this thing. So
I apologize to you for that, Rachel, as
the sacrificial lamb. But um it it
requires a bipartisan coalition to to
take on these these tech companies. And
look, I think this is a I think by
firing these FTC commissioners, I don't
I don't think President Trump was making
a conscious decision to break up the the
what he started. He's the one who
brought these antirust lawsuits in the
first term. I think that uh I think that
that some people who have ulterior
motives motives may have uh gotten to
him at with with the wrong angle on
this. And so it's going to take it's
going to the bipartisan coalition is not
dead. I will make damn sure that doesn't
happen. Uh, and we will fix this and
move on. D, let's talk about
mechanically the future of some of these
cases. How does some of this executive
action and these fights within the Trump
coalition actually affect the success of
future cases or not ongoing cases and
potential future cases that might be
able to be brought forward. Totally. So,
there's nothing harder than taking on
trillion dollar companies um as a
lawyer, right? There are lots of hard
things we did at the Justice Department
from spoofing cases to um terrorism
cases and things like that. But um you
know going up against opponents that
have the resources and power of
sovereigns, right, and sometimes
exceeding sovereigns in some cases um
really takes um a very serious
commitment and having the support right
like sort of whole of government support
to do that is very very important. If
you think that there are factional
forces that may undercut that effort, um
that you know your job may be
threatened, right, if you pick the big
fights, that can cause some people um to
tense up. We were fortunate, right,
because we did not care, right, when we
were governing. Um and I I see that
there are bold um leaders who are
committed to those fights that um we
picked and they're going to pick their
own fights, right? they're going to um
bring other kinds of monopolization
cases that I think will be very
important for us to see. Um but again, I
I suspect there will be clash and when
you have those clashes, it is very
important to have a backbone of steel,
right? and and go the distance and see
that there are public trials um that
are, you
know, um attendable, viewable by the
American public, um that there's a real
accounting, that there are um that
there's real accountability, right, for
these companies. I think I think that's
something I think that the American
people want. It's about getting there.
And so, Mike, you know, we have to
navigate if we do want to get to some
place like that, a lot of these
coalitional factions. So you're alluding
to bad advice and some of these other
things. It's very clear that there's a
big war inside of the administration. So
I mean a lot of the people in this room
may be involved in some of those fights,
you know, behind the scenes. What's the
advice that you can give left and right
in order to bolster the faction that
does want to take on big tech? I think
you need to be persistent and dog it and
remember what you're up against. You're
up against a$4 trillion dollar big tech
monopouist who have a lot of lawyers.
They have a lot of lobbyists. They have
a lot of advertising money and they are
very good at this game. They want to do
everything they can to protect their
monopolies and they will crush people in
their way. And so what I what I say to
conservatives is to make them understand
this is not, you know, Marxist big big
government stuff. This is antitrust.
These are century old antitrust laws.
The the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act,
they've been on the books for over 100
years. And these are law enforcement
tools, right? They are targeted law
enforcement tools. These uh the
antitrust laws are the opposite of
regulation. You saw Facebook spending
money calling for regulation because of
course if you're a trillion dollar
monopolist, you can afford regulations.
Those are a rounding air for for a
trillion dollar company. But if you're a
startup company, those regulations are
an entry barrier. And Facebook knows
that. That's why they're calling for
them, right? So, if you target the anti-
anti-competitive tumors on the free
market, I always say the free market
requires a functioning market. And when
you have trillion dollar big tech
monopolists crushing competition, you no
longer have a functioning market. You no
longer have a free market. So, if you
target those tumors, that helps the
entire market, right? That that that
helps all the startup competitors. It's
not regulation. It's the opposite of
regulation. And so that's the ar those
are the arguments I make to
conservatives and I just make them
constantly and doggedly for the last
five years along with Rachel and you
know we ultimately won. Absolutely. So
Tohok can you give some advice now
you're a private citizen. What was it
like on the inside when you're taking on
you know multi-t trillion dollar market
cap and a building bigger than this
that's just full of one group of DC
lawyers not to mention all lawyers
across the country. What is that like
not only at a psychological level but
navigating the coalitions which is what
a lot of uh people in the conservative
movement are finding now that they're
actually in government and having the
knife fights around this. Yeah. I think
that um when you are governing you have
to remember that you are responsible for
governing for the entire American
people. Um you have to talk to the
entire American people and recognize
that most like the ordinary person
cannot vindicate their economic liberty.
And that's how I view some of these tech
fights. like this is an economic liberty
problem. And so for all, you know, all
of us who were in um my front office, we
were constantly thinking about, you
know, who is the core American that is
harmed, right? Like um in JetBlue
Spirit, for example, we were thinking
about the person who couldn't otherwise
get home um to see a loved one to attend
a graduation without um Spirit's low
fars. When we were thinking about the
Google search trial strategy, we were
thinking about um the average person
going to the internet and visiting an
access point so they could get
information and make choices for
themselves about how they wanted to live
their lives, right? when we were
thinking about um other cases that I
won't call out, we were thinking about
developers, right, who in many cases had
better and more interesting products
that they could have brought to market
and one on the merits but for other
entrenched monopolies. And so I think
keeping at the forefront of your brain
the American people is a really powerful
um motivator to do the right things for
the right reasons. And it actually
informs better trial strategies because
it turns out generalist judges can you
know make heads or tails of facts. They
can apply the law. But you know helping
them understand the stakes and the
stakes could not be higher here um is
the most important thing you can do when
you're on the inside. And so on that
telling, who cares if there are folks
who um may be um you know shilling or um
may be captured right by big powerful
entrenched interests like that's been
true since the beginning of time, right?
But you have to have vision and focus
and a real sense of mission. Yeah, I
think I really want to end on that note
because ultimately this organization is
built on empowering startups. And so
when we think about, you know, the
future of the US economy and uh what the
big tech companies always tell us is
that they're our golden, you know, our
golden goose. Like look at all the
amount of growth uh that has come from
them. They're the ones that are
responsible. Uh but I think they often
ignore like where not only they came
from but the ability to achieve that
sometime in the future. And so, Mike,
when you're talking now potentially to
some of the builders in the audience or
the people who want to empower the
builders, how are they supposed to think
about antirust policy when they're
actively both trying to build something
and navigate the very platforms that are
either oppressing them or that they may
have to sell to earlier than they may
not want to. I mean, these big tech
platforms are bad for competition.
They're bad for innovation. They stifle
uh they stifle our economy. Uh they they
stifle the the startup economy. They
stifled small and mid-size companies.
Let me just give you an example. I don't
know if you guys saw this news story
yesterday that Google intentionally
makes its search worse for its users so
it can give the users more of its ads.
Yeah. Right. The only reason they can do
that is because they have like a 95%
market share, right? Because Google
search it. It's like Kleenex. If you how
do you go search on the internet? You
Google it, right? And uh remember when
they said if you if you don't like
Google build your own. Okay. Well,
Microsoft, not a small company, spent5
billion dollars trying to create a
competitor to Google search. And it's
called Bang. Uh a lot of you guys are
young out here in the audience. Have you
ever heard of Bang?
Google it. Probably only as a joke.
Doa, same question to you.
Um, look for the startup uh the startups
for the folks who have an innovative
spirit. I mean, I I just think that it
rhymes with just core notions of
American ingenuity. And I would say that
antitrust is here for you. Um, you
should take interest in the politics and
the policy. Um, because ultimately, um,
my vision is not, um, you know, to be
prescriptive. I don't think anyone who
is very serious about antitrust wants
to, um, meet out like certain outcomes.
Um whether you are a trillion dollar
company like you know the Microsofts of
the world or um you are someone in your
garage like I grew up in North Carolina
right like I want it to be easy for
someone to create a search engine in
their garage in North Carolina right and
to offer something that's differentiated
or is a wholesale competitor and like
that's what this is about right the core
of antitrust is dispersion of economic
opportunity and making sure that people
actually can win on their merits, right?
We don't punish success in this country,
but there are rules of market
participation. And I just think it's a
travesty that we as a country that um
you know, again, invented internet
search, invented flight, like so many
American so many wonderful things that
the entire world enjoys were created or
researched and like funded in the United
States. And to lose that, right, to lose
our edge is just it's like unspeakably
sad to me, right? And so that's what
antitrust is about. I think that's
really well said. It's also you made a
good call there to be interested in
politics. I remember I was in San
Francisco maybe eight years ago. Uh
there was some tech founder there. He's
multi- whatever billionaire net worth
and he was laughing at me and he was
like, I don't care about Washington at
all. I was like, well, they're going to
care about you. And I saw him on
Congress not that long ago. So uh you
know there's a bit of a it was there was
a hubris I think Mike uh that existed at
that time that uh this market and this
ecosystem both could ignore regulatory
scrutiny but also that they were
genuinely above everything else. And so
that's kind of where I want to end it
here is about antitrust and where the
future of this all looks like. And so
where should we look for the future of
the antitrust movement? Now, it almost
seems quaint to be talking about Google
and everything, especially with the rise
of so many of these AI companies and
trying specifically to lay a groundwork
and a foundation to make sure that it
doesn't go that industry in the same way
that they uh that the original uh tech
monopolies did. So, where do you see
things going in that direction? Well, I
think under President Obama, we saw
eight years of antirust amnesty and that
continued for at the beginning of the
Trump administration. Doha was a leading
force to make sure that that ended with
min and then uh with cancer and Biden
under President Biden and that was so
important to do that because we had to
end big tech big tech had this dangerous
combination of both antirust amnesty and
section 230 immunity. And so they acted
like they were above the law because
they were right. And they had way too
much power. I mean they had so much
power. Right. I I I get we have
different politics here, but they had so
much power that they deplatformed the
sitting president of the United States.
And so that tells you how much power
these uh trillion dollar big tech
platforms have. I think you're seeing
this bipartisan coalition, even with
this FTC hiccup. I think this bipartisan
coalition is going to continue because
it has to continue. If we don't break up
this gatekeeping power by these trillion
dollar big tech monopolists, it's only
going to get worse, especially with AI.
I mean, just imagine if Google uh
controls AI. I mean, I can't think of
anything more dangerous to our country.
They they always say this is a national
security issue. China is a Google
puppet. They they built project
dragonfly for the the CCP
uh for their military while they refused
to do the American project uh uh project
Maven, right? So they they refused to do
American drone program uh while they
were doing the CCP project dragonfly. So
like this idea that big tech is a uh
that big tech companies are pro America
is just wrong. The most dangerous thing
imaginable is if these Chinese
controlled companies get a hold of AI
that's last question then same to you
Doha. Where does the future assuming
we're not in a third Trump
administration and orth Yeah, you're
right. Uh uh it's he didn't mean Donald
Trump FDR got four terms. Why can't
Trump he meant Trump Jr. or Baron,
right? He'll age into it by that time.
But just fell over. Yeah. assuming that
we are uh do we do see a Democrat-
elected president again? What will the
uh antirust future look like under them?
I just have to say everybody go home and
and hug your 22nd amendment. Um but
uh look the future um I think will be
colored by you know this convergence of
economic issues and national security. I
think Mike is exactly right. These
companies are obsequious to malign
foreign powers. I think the most
prominent being um China. Um I think
that the AI race is going to be made
better by open markets, vibrant markets,
um you know, investment in our um
semiconductor industry, making sure that
we're investing in industrial policy,
right? In addition to antitrust that um
really um helps to grow up these like
essential products and services that
we'll need. Um and then there's a whole
like layer, right? an applications layer
um that I think will grow and thrive if
the infrastructure um is there. You
know, the other thing I would point out
is just that, you know, there's big tech
on its own terms, but really everything
is tech, right? Um I was reading a a
report the other day that posited that
the healthc care crisis may be a
domestic security crisis and that was um
extremely alarming to me. And so
remembering that um technology
entrenched technological power may make
adjacent industries worse. And so when
we're thinking about healthcare
hyperscalers or um you know agriculture
hyperscalers, right, you're we had
farmers coming in to tell us constantly
about the surveillance of farming
equipment, right? Taking in information
about seeding and planting and growing.
And I just I found that extremely
alarming. And so our inability to get a
handle on this will make or break the
future, right? And I'm I'm hopeful. I'm
optimistic because there are folks like
Mike and Gail and Andrew and Mark and
others who are going to take the baton
um who have taken the baton, but there's
just there's so much work to be done and
we need to be focused on the next round
of fights. There you go. All right.
Well, let's get a round of applause for
our panelists. They were great.