Video ID: p9qa1IO0Jsw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9qa1IO0Jsw
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1622
============================================================

I actually applied immediately. I got
rejected because I was in high school.
And then I applied again. I got rejected
again. And then the third time we came
armed with a prototype that actually
worked. The market is a great I mean
it's just like punch in the face. Like
it teaches you a lot like very quickly.
I think our biggest learning is get in
front of the customer and then just
solve problems for them and and start
with one specific problem regardless of
how small it looks. We went from having
no revenue to having 3 or 4 million in
revenue in like a year. And it was like
well we're done. like we solve all the
all the problems that are to solve and
then and you're like well no actually
the game starts now. [music]
>> I'm thrilled to be joined today by Tana
Tanden the CEO of Kamir. We're very
excited to have him because he's one of
the leading providers of enterprise
software to healthcare. Thanks so much
for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Why don't we kick things off? Why don't
you tell me what Athellis is and what
are you guys working on?
>> Yeah. Uh, Athellis Camir builds software
products for providers and so we have
tools that automate their day-to-day
workflows like Camircribe which is an
ambient documentation tool revenue cycle
which is a payment stack. It's basically
Stripe for healthcare and doctors. It
submits their claims, uses LLMs to
negotiate denials with insurance
companies, appeal those denials, and
then really render all of the data viz
and business intelligence to run your
practice from a financial standpoint.
And then also a whole host of clinical
tools. come engage which does back
office and front office interactions
with the patient, explaining their bills
to them, uh explaining what types of
tasks they need to do to get prepared
for a procedure like a colonoscopy,
sending them appointment reminders, do
on the order of a couple billion dollars
worth of payments volume every year. Um,
help document using our ambient AI tool
20 million appointments every year and
then uh probably 150 million touch
points uh annually on on on our patient
engagement piece. um spread in large
health systems and private practices.
>> And so this is sort of a bundle of
pieces of software that are each solving
kind of independent problems for a
practice and collectively sort of serve
as the software operating system for
this entire practice.
>> That's right. And so you know our
solutions are used by the physicians and
the nurses in the practice or the
hospital and then also by the back
office. So your accountants, your
billing team, what we call revenue cycle
in healthcare. everything from uh you
know submitting the claim to actually
you know ledgering everything up for the
uh CFO's office
>> and you can actually do all of this with
technology today. You can have an AI
model that'll call up an insurance
company and negotiate with them and that
actually works
>> 100%. I mean I think the ability for
language models to both interact via
voice and text with humans and we just
got there a year ago and so we're just
at the precipice of what it can
accomplish. Um, and when you walk into a
health system, there are tens of
thousands of people whose sole job it is
to do these types of tasks. And if you
can free up their time, you can bring
that productivity back onto what matters
the most, which is patient care.
>> And I imagine a lot of those tasks are
already outsourced to some degree. So,
you're kind of just slotting in to where
they've already outsourced it to someone
else.
>> Exactly. They they use vendors like R1,
which is an offshoring RCM provider,
Axis, Omega. Many of them have their own
in-house shops where they actually, you
know, it's effectively outsourced, but
they actually have the individuals on
site and the the direction of the
industry for the last 20 years has been
offshoring. It works okay for what it's
worth. I mean, these became big
businesses, but I think LLM's there's an
opportunity to reimagine all of that
where it's it's pure software.
>> And this ultimately becomes a product
offering for all types of hospitals,
both small and large.
>> Yep. We work with the HCAS of the world
which is a hundred billion dollar
hospital empire you know 3,000 sites of
care 186 hospitals all the way down to
your private practice owned by a single
physician and you know they use varying
parts of the solution but it's provided
as one platform which is revenue cycle
workflow automation and patient
engagement in one
>> what does that actually mean like for
someone who's not in healthcare like
what do these roles actually look like
in terms of where technology fits into
them
>> yeah the way I think about it is the
physicians dayto-day day is really
defined as interacting with a patient
and treating that patient uh and then
often generating the relevant
documentation so that their back office
which is think of it like their
accounting team their AR team invoicing
can actually submit those claims to
insurance.
>> One of the challenges in healthcare is
the person paying for the for the
service is not the person receiving that
service. So a person paying as like an
insurance company or Medicare or
whatever receiving it is the patient
>> is the patient themselves and that
individual the beneficiary you know
their incentives are to get treated to
get treated fast to get the best
treatment in the world and often the
insurance company's incentive is to pay
out as little as possible and hopefully
treat as little as possible which is a
counter incentive to really what the
patient is trying to accomplish. And so
when it comes to then building
technology then you guys build
technology for all parts of this from
the patient experience itself as well as
the kind of front and back office
accounting and kind of administration of
that patient experience. We we see it as
you know there are two key protagonists
in our story which is the patients and
the providers and we build software
solutions and hardware solutions for
that group of individuals and there's an
effective enemy that's created as a
result which is the insurance company
and all of our tools are pointed at the
payers in in terms of trying to make
their lives harder and make the lives of
our customers easier.
>> Okay. Very interesting. Okay. I want to
dive into your technology, but before
that I'd love to hear a little bit about
the backstory of so why don't we rewind
the clock uh to the very early days like
how did this company come about? Like
what was the very early days like? Um
what was your experience in YC like and
kind of how did you even begin to arrive
at this idea that you're working on now?
So I I was very fortunate to have grown
up in the Bay Area and when you're in
the Bay Area, Y Cominator is just in the
ether like people like Casar and Justin
Khan and Sam Alman were like our heroes
and the I remember it was like 2013 or
2014 that we somehow snuck into YC
startup school because it was happening
in Certino. Um
>> I think I was there too actually also
sort of snuck into it.
>> It was a great start. I think Zuck came,
Jeff Dorsey was there.
>> Yep. Same one. Um, Flexport did their
interview on stage and I remember I was,
you know, I was like teenager in high
school. I was just in awe of of of these
people that had built such amazing
technology and YC is this ecosystem that
had enabled a lot of it uh and was
starting to enable more and more of it.
So, you know, fast forward a couple
years, Y Cominator hosted this hackathon
called YC hacks and uh I had read a
couple papers about how you could use
computer vision to potentially analyze
blood cells and also use really cheap
pieces of glass to enhance a smartphone
camera to basically turn into a
microscope.
>> So, this is like in 2016 or 174. 2014.
So, this is like early computer vision.
Like the deep learning is like just
starting to happen to some degree.
Computer vision is just barely starting.
the the models that we were using them
were like even like for for computer
vision were you know you're using like
segmentation algorithms like watershed
and like you know we like random forest
is what like were like the best models
for for often NLP and even in some task
in computer vision. And so armed with
those two pieces of information, I went
to YC hacks um and built this little
really hacked together smartphone camera
with a random force that had been
trained to classify malarial cells
versus non-malarial cells um based off
of a training set on the internet. And
it worked like pretty well like you
could you could segment these two. Um
and and then you know I was a senior in
high school at the time but it became my
science for project that year and I got
very obsessed with this this idea of man
we can use computer vision to automate a
task that someone like a pathologist a
very trained person is doing in in a in
a expensive laboratory and bring that
care directly to the patient um and
simplify the provider's life and that
eventually became a which was started as
a med device diagnostics company. Oh,
interesting. Okay. So, when you when you
applied to YC then, so this is shortly
after that, maybe a year or two after
you were a freshman in college or
something like that.
>> So, I actually applied immediately. I
got rejected because I was in high
school and and then I applied again. I
got rejected again. And then the third
time we came armed with a prototype that
actually worked. And it was after Id
spent about six months at Stanford and
you know the resources that you have
access to with the med school and the uh
you know in the the mechanical
engineering department like we were able
to put something pretty serious
together. Uh and that's when we got in
for summer 16.
>> And this was with a med device that was
doing some type of kind of image based
analysis of was it was this original
idea of like blood sample analysis?
>> That's right. So it was basically taking
a small volume of blood, turning it into
a monollayer, so you could see, you
know, single cells basically like
they're on a on a smear. Um, and then
basically a a microscope with an imager
attached to it, but was hacked in a way
that it was very uh large field of view
and still high resolution. And then we
trained computer vision algorithms to
recognize and segment those various
cells.
>> And so at this point, you know, your
background is primarily in computer
science. I assume you had some
experience in this application area in
biology in high school and early
college. You know, what gave you the
conviction to be like, I'm going to
presumably drop out of college, start
this company that is in a regulated
industry with medical devices. Like how
did you actually arrive at that
conviction? I
>> I would say two key sources. one my
co-founder Deepka who's also one of my
closest friends uh we used to compete in
science spheres against each other and
her research was always way more uh call
it med device or bioengineering focused
and she worked through high school on
this uh micrfluidic test strip that
could detect salmonella very quickly
from you know produce and you know I
thought it was remarkable that you could
build something like that in in high
school because it was you know was
hardware there was bio involved you have
to have a good understanding of you know
how these det protection strips were
actually fabbed and cut and whatnot. And
so it was clear that okay, we could
build things in the real world with uh
with micrfluidics. And then number two,
I think the, you know, when you're at
Stanford, you get to meet these amazing
professors. For me, Chris Manning was
was someone who gave me my first shot in
the Stanford AI lab under Richard
Socher, um, who started Metammind where
I was a research intern as well. And I
think they were just it was really
motivating because for them it was like
there's there's no boundaries to what
machine learning can do. you should go
after these complex industries. Um, and
they, you know, Richard was ended up
being the first check right after Y
Cominator 50K check and and I think that
support really encouraged us as well.
>> Yeah, totally. Okay. So, so let's now
talk about your time in YC. You know, at
this point it's just the two of you. Um,
you're working on this regulated medical
device. What did you set as kind of your
demo day goal and like how did you what
did you accomplish in those few months
of YC that ultimately then put you on a
trajectory to build something somewhat
different now from what you describe
now? We'll kind of talk about that that
transition. But yeah, what what did that
first few months look like?
>> I I think the first week itself of YC
was total shock because we came in with
these traditional timelines for how long
a med device should take or how long
anything in healthcare should take,
>> which is like years or something.
>> And and that seemed pretty good to me. I
was like, cool. Like we're going to be
on this for a long time. It's, you know,
we're going to go super slow. Remember I
had a conversation with with Casar, who
was our group partner and is also now on
our board. Um, and he, you know, he was
basically like, he made me walk through
every assumption on, well, why is that
months? That that just seems like it's
like a paperwork. You should be able
[clears throat] to do it in a week. Why
are you waiting for Stanford IRB to
approve this trial where you could go to
some local lab and probably get it done
in a week? Uh, and I think because of
that, Deep and I sat down and just like
reimagined how quickly you could build
this stuff and and really went from
almost like zerobased budgeting, but for
a clinical trial. And the other piece
was, you know, if you're a competitive
person, in our batch, we had companies
like, you know, Scale AI was in our
batch and and this was a company that
pivoted mid batch and got to like
millions in revenue by the end of the
batch. You know, for us, we never wanted
to just be the best healthcare company
in the batch. We wanted to be the best
company in the batch. And and so it was
it was this this pressure that we sort
of created for ourselves and that group
partners created that really caused us
to pace uh more aggressively than if we
were doing it outside of of of YC. And
so we set this goal of we will finish a
clinical trial and have a ready to go
FDA submission by the end of YC. Um and
it was crazy but we actually got the
clinical trial done. We needed to redo
some of the experiments per the FDA's
request. So the the approval itself took
a little longer, but we we we got the
the core basis of of the clinicals done
in those 10 weeks.
>> I mean, that's pretty absurd pace,
right? I mean, I think like when you
think about a normal regulated medical
device, we're talking about many years
in that process. And yeah, I mean, I
think this ability to kind of break down
into its only what the critical
components of it are, what parts you can
actually shortcut versus not is it's a
very challenging head space to get into.
And then you guys as as 19-year-olds, I
mean, I can only imagine some number of
people you talk to are like, "Who are
these guys to be making a medical
device?" Like, how do you go up against
that? Like, how did you get yourself to
not care? Basically,
>> we had many conversations where we got a
quote from Stanford where it was like,
"We can run this trial and it'll be
$120,000 and it will take 3 years."
>> And and I mean, when you see something
like that, it's almost so absurd that it
wheels you into action a little bit,
which is like, if this is the default
system, I mean, something is broken. and
and and I think um because of that we
thought to ourselves it's time to
rethink first principles and it really
came down to one identifying a partner
hospital that was small enough and
willing to work with us very quickly and
that ended up being in Huarez Mexico so
we flew out there mid batch uh ran the
trial with them number two is really
deleting as many parts as possible and
running the simplest form of the trial
so instead of hiring traditional
clinical trial operators deep and I ran
the trial ourselves she took samples in
the front room. I was in the back room
running them on the device. Uh, and then
we had a nurse that we had hired for the
day who was running them on the
traditional system called the
Sysmex5000.
And we would then compare those results
and show that they were accurate and and
equivalent to each other. And the whole
process from finding the hospital to
making sure the devices were ready to
actually running the trial and then
getting the results end to end was
probably 6 weeks of the batch. Once we
hit those milestones, that's when we
raised our seed round.
>> Okay. So you started there though. You
started with this medical device. Today
you're not a medical device company for
the most part at least or at all I
think. What was that arc like? I'm sure
there was many steps in which the
company changed. But maybe tell me a
little bit about how you segment your
brain into like the few eras of this
company and how you went from one of
these to perhaps pivoting to uh kind of
another version of that company over the
last few years. you know, we did YC, we
raised our seed round from Sequoia,
Alfred, um, over at Sequoia, and the
next 18 to 24 months just became brutal
focus on getting an FDA clearance. Um,
get the device to a state where it can
replicably run in in in clinical trials,
uh, where you can, you know, all kinds
of crazy tests like we have to drop the
device and kick the device and, you
know, things break and you have to be
able to continue to pass the the
relevant tests. And that was it. We were
laser focused on this one goal. And I
think that was very freeing in some ways
because it was the only thing we had to
get done. We also only had $3 million to
do it. Um, and you know, the the other
piece of it was to start proving out the
commercials. And that's when I started
engaging with uh what became our first
customer, which was actually a
pharmaceutical company that manufactured
a drug called Cloopene, which is a
refractory schizophrenia treatment that
causes neutropenia, white blood cell
count reduction as a side effect. And
you know, they told us, "We've been
dreaming about a device like this." and
and they signed that first million-doll
contract even before we had approval
just based off of the results of the
clinical. So, we had that commercial
proof. We had early clinics that were
adopting it. We were, you know, seeing
them use it and then we got the FDA
clearance and that was really this like
the first like epoch of the company the
first like two two and a half years.
>> Once we got that, you know, the the
market is a great I mean it's just like
punch in the face. Like it teaches you a
lot like very quickly.
>> You must have felt like you were on
cloud n then you're like, "Oh, we're
we're chilling. We we figured this out
now. Now we're going to go to the moon
with this." I I mean we got the
clearance and it was like well we're
done like we solved all the all the
problems that are to solve and then and
you're like well no actually the game
starts now and the exciting thing was
that we went from having no revenue to
having 3 or 4 million in revenue in like
a year. So as far as traditional series
A metrics and pacing like we were there.
The thing that we realized in parallel
was okay we can probably scale this
business to tens of millions in revenue
and build a business that a ro or an
Abbott or someone will buy for you know
200 million bucks or whatever that
number is like a good med device
outcome. At the same time we had this
team that we felt could run through
walls and had built machine learning
software had gone through regulatory
done the operations of device
manufacturing and we were in these
clinics like our devices were deployed
and we saw all kinds of problems.
>> So you got in there by deploying the
devices we were solving all sorts of
other problems they were facing and
along the way you discovered there's
this massive other set of problems that
you can solve too.
>> Yep. We we wanted to go from making
their lives easier for a percent of
their patients. So we were serving with
our athals one device to 100% of their
patients uh and their whole chronic care
panel with you know the teleahalth tools
and the revenue cycle tools. And and I
think you know my looking back the
reason this time period was so valuable
is we would not have had you know a
valuegiving relationship with these
customers had it not been for the
device. They trusted us. They saw us as
more than just a device company. They
saw us as those kids that would show up
in their office, set up the device,
train them how to use it. And because of
that, they would tell us about all these
other problems they had in their
clinics. Like, hey, when I get the
result from the device, I have to upload
it into this portal manually, and then I
have to call up a pharmacist and tell
them like, hey, the fax is coming
through. We would just hear these, you
know, these complaints like, well, it
would be amazing if I could, you know,
upload this automatically or if I could
fill this claim form out automatically
to get the next set of medication
adjudicated. And that's when we started
building software and it honestly felt
like playing on easy mode after two
years of building building hardware and
dealing with the FDA.
>> You know, at some point presumably the
software starts to take off and become a
pretty significant part of your
business. At at some point do you you
what is that process like of leaning in
on that and perhaps you know abandoning
the thing that or or at least leaning
out of the thing that has been your
initial driver that got you there in the
first place that has this big pharma
ideal for example. What does that
process look like? It was interesting
because we had two paths in front of us.
Be the best aellis swan medical device
company in the world and just you know
build a great compounding 40 50%
annualized grower in that in that
segment. Alternatively it was bet on
yourself again and expand the TAM and do
more for these customers um based on the
learnings we were getting from the
market.
>> And also when was this by the way?
>> This was in 2020. Um
>> so you've been at this now for like
fourish years. Like this has been your
thing. You're a med device company.
you're growing this thing and now 2020
is coming. A lot of things are happening
in the world uh as I'm sure is going to
be relevant here. And then also you're
starting to see that there's an
interesting new opportunity in software.
>> Yep. And I remember it was I forget was
it might have been Robin Hood or it
might have been some company. We had
this interesting uh fireside that we
went to and they talked a lot about
share of wallet and this concept of you
want to do more and more for your
consumer and go from just being you know
with Robin Hood like their toy stock
couple hundred bucks playing around to
like no this is like a meaningful
financial product for your entire
portfolio. For us, the the analogy was
was apt because we went we we wanted to
go from treating 1% of their patients,
these refractory schizophrenia patients
that were treatment resistant to
treating all their patients. And I
remember Deep, my co-founder, she was in
one of these clinics. She spent a lot of
time in these clinics and she was like,
"It's insane. We are helping them for 1%
of their patients and they love us so
much. Imagine if we could build tools
for all of their patients, their full
thousand patient panel." And and I think
that's when we took the bet. We're like,
we can build a multi-billion dollar
software business, sensor business in
this segment by expanding what we do for
these customers and and grow a lot
faster than the 100,000 total patients
that had this one condition.
>> And then this was before the LLM era was
really taking off. You were obviously a
machine learning company and you had a
lot of experience with building
software. Um, but like what did that
initial software look like? Like what
types of problems could you solve then?
Presumably now you can solve many more.
Yeah, we started with the basics which
is one uh co hit and and as a result our
providers needed ways to monitor their
patients in their homes. So we built a
basic telealth portal and a set of
remote monitoring devices that connected
into it and allowed them to interact
with those patients many of whom also
used the FLS1 device in the point of
care or in their homes. The very next
thing we started playing around with was
workflow automation as it related to
claim submission and payments. So
everything from collecting dollars from
these patients to uh you know starting
to submit claims to insurance and first
we did it just for or you know this
subset of remote monitoring and cloopine
patients and then expanded organically
to more and more of the practice
>> and and these are problems you basically
discovered from being in their offices
like you know you and your co-founder
are in there and you're noticing and
hearing from them about whatever other
problems they're facing and you're kind
of seeing okay like as exciting as this
is we sort of have to solve these as we
go.
>> Exactly. There is no other way to
discover these problems than being in
your customers dayto-day and and and
just seeing them because there's so much
nuance to where they get stuck and it's
not something you can derive you know by
reading an article or you know watching
a video online. You you have to be in
the in the heat of things.
>> Yeah, totally. I mean I think we see
this with with companies every day today
especially in this sort of new
technological moment is that it's very
hard to conceive of great startup ideas
kind of in your home or in a lab. It's
much more likely to encounter them
somewhere in the field by being in
there. And so for you guys that sort of
was a was a game changer in putting you
in that place.
>> 100%.
>> Well, okay. Well, why don't we, you
know, kind of move forward now a little
bit to to today and and get there by
kind of talking about what the last few
years has looked like in healthcare
generally. I mean, there's been an
incredible amount of changes happening
in healthcare. To your point, there's
these massive mega conglomerate style
hospital businesses. There's
consolidation in payers and PBMs. for
you guys as you see this sort of
changing landscape where do you one
where do you fit into that landscape and
then also how does that changing
landscape affect your business and as
you think about growing it
>> I I think it's it's it's really
interesting is if you go back to the
'90s uh the life of a physician was
great they had a tight panel of patients
they knew them personally they treated
them and if there was you know chronic
diseases they were able to talk to the
patient very quickly idea of a concierge
doctor was was fairly common you know
anyone in upper middle middle class had
a concierge doctor of some kind. And as
the bloat that came from insurance and
regulation and and and just what we
turned healthcare into into this sort of
like admin state
>> is what really broke down the
productivity of a physician where they
turned into these these, you know, cogs
and this greater wheel and there's, you
know, patient productivity numbers they
have to hit. There's countless tasks
they have to do. regardless of how
efficient they are, they always take
documentation home and they're filling
out paperwork. And I see it as this
great misuse of of talent in that we
have some of the most intelligent,
well-trained, uh, uh, well-intentioned
people in the country spending their
time doing tasks that really software
should be doing for them. Uh, LLMs are
not. And what we've seen happen is a lot
of physicians give up on this dream of
the private practice or the
physician-owned practice in change for
joining a large health system that does
take on a lot of the overhead that you
now need to pay in order to just operate
a health system.
>> This is like negotiating with insurance
companies and with PBMs and having uh
farmer relationships and all that kind
of stuff,
>> paying for an EMR, dealing with
malpractice. And so all of this made it
harder to practice care and and and
turned it more into this again like this
admin business. And and I think now with
LLMs, there's this generational
opportunity to free the physician and
and really bring them back to what they
love doing the most, which is rendering
care. And I think our work is in service
of that. Uh take the work tax and just
nuke it. take every part of their
revenue cycle, their back office, their
documentation, um, and and use software
to automate, uh, large chunks of that.
>> And I mean, you guys sell to, you know,
both this mid-market and larger market
or or any kind of enterprise market.
It feels like what you're saying here is
that this midm market is what you see as
potentially best suited to take
advantage of of LLM and especially sort
of this broader technological adoption
because it frees them from needing to
consolidate into these bigger
enterprises and perhaps the advantage of
the bigger enterprises won't be as much
the case in the future. Is that kind of
how you see it or do you think not so
much?
>> I I I think it goes both ways. one I
think we will see it's sort of the
analogy we use is like Amazon and
Shopify where over the last 20 years or
[clears throat] 10 years or whatever
time period Amazon has grown remarkably
um as it's you know taken a lot of share
from traditional retail and also
expanded what we order online but then
Shopify has exploded as well as more
people are able to start their own
businesses and I think you will have
this aspect of the physician who
practices in a health system but then
also has their own practice um and
chooses their hours and because of the
fact that software is automating more
and more of their day, they can see more
patients and do it in in a way that is
sustainable and gives them energy as
opposed to drains them out by the end of
the day.
>> Yeah. So, let's talk about that a little
bit in terms of software automating more
and more of their day. There's been a
lot of software adoption in healthcare
over the last 10 years. Most of it
through electronic health records and,
you know, kind of payment portals with
insurance and whatnot. Um, but a lot of
it has been promised to doctors as
saving them time or helping patients in
various ways over the last decade. But
the critique has often been that well,
it's not really been about that. It's
been about getting paid for care. It's
been about billing mostly and not
actually about care. How do you see what
that technological adoption story looks
like over the last decade and then over
this next decade? Like what are things
you think are going to be fundamentally
different about this technological
moment? It's it's definitely true
because a lot of the digitization and
creation of EMRs came from a place of
compliance and a place of of billing and
institutionalizing a lot of regulatory
requirements as opposed to true you know
unleashing the doctor. [clears throat]
You know do Dr. classical who's one of
our uh you know he used to run Thomas
Jefferson University the health system
um you know he calls this the epidemic
which is like there's just this
proliferation of of work tax in every
organ in the country in IT departments
in you know in the physicians day-to-day
and it didn't solve the problem it set
out to solve because the software was
built from the perspective of the CIO's
office and the CFO's office
>> who are optimized around getting paid
basically.
>> Exactly. optimized around getting paid
and not getting sued and and those are
the you know the two the two drivers you
know the CLLO's office as well now I
think you're seeing a lot of
physician-driven adoption of these tools
one postco we really stress the system
out we we burnt we burnt out our
physicians or burnt out our nurses and
there's almost no option but for them to
use these tools uh uh and and and push
for the adoption of these tools in order
to just keep up with their with their
day-to-day patient volumes our loudest
advocates even in largest health systems
are physicians.
>> Well, this is really fascinating. That
feels like a huge difference, right? I
imagine in selling the first version of
EHRs five or six years ago, you're Yeah.
largely selling to central IT teams,
CIOS, that type of thing. Here, you're
saying today when you approach selling
your recent software, it's an individual
doctor who's your advocate.
>> 100%. We have we have a self-s serve
ambient documentation tool called
Scribe. And
>> yeah, how does that work actually? Can
you tell us a bit about that?
>> I would say it's one of the explosions
in software categories recently. You've
probably had in terms of like really
fast LLM adoption, I think you've had
coding tools like the winds surfs and
the cursors of the world and then you
you've had ambient documentation tools
um in the in the healthcare world. And
ambient documentation listens to the
conversation that a patient and a
physician have. It summarizes that and
then it generates all of the
documentation based on being trained on
previous approvals, previous pieces of
documentation and basically hands it off
to the revenue cycle teams ready to go.
>> It's like a perfect problem for LM. This
thing LM would be really good.
>> It's a perfect problem for LM. You have
transcription, you have summarization,
you have, you know, references and
citations back to clinical source
material all in this one, you know, one
set of models. Uh, and that tool, we
went from 2023 doing maybe 100,000
appointments through that tool to this
year, we'll probably do 20 to 25 million
appointments through that tool. There's
a self-s serve motion that has gone from
last year zero appointments to this year
5 million appointments. Um,
>> self-s serve motion as in you don't go
through the hospital IT team at It's a
physician finds it online. Uh we
advertise directly to them. They sign up
often paying with their own credit card.
Um
>> that seems new.
>> It seems crazy. I mean I was shocked
when when we saw this working. Uh it was
this is not behavior you've seen in
healthcare before.
>> And from that we you know we then go
upsell almost like Slack or Dropbox or
one of these traditional software tools
the whole enterprise where we pitch the
integrations into their EMR the whole
workflow tool. Um, and that's been a
massive, you know, source of of of
expansion for us.
>> If I'm a founder, you know, I might be
thinking, well, isn't it going to be
really annoying in terms of HIPPA and in
terms of all these rules and whatnot in
terms of actually
>> getting a doctor to sign up? Like, it's
not even intuitive to me that a doctor
is allowed to self-sign up for this type
of thing. How do you guys think about
that? Is that has something changed that
makes it easy or was it never actually
as hard as people thought?
>> It's a good question. And I think
there's definitely a lot of compliance
departments in hospitals that are very
much against self- adopted software, but
the productivity gains are so great that
it's happening one way or another. Um,
and the options that a compliance
department at a hospital has is either,
you know, sign up and make this part of
the institution or, you know, tell your
physicians to continue being burnt out.
And usually they're picking the one that
that ends up with happier physicians.
You know, there are totally ways for
there to be HIPPA compliant self-s
served tools. Now, that might defy the
individual policies of a of a private
institution like like a hospital itself,
but from a pure HIPO compliance
standpoint, right?
>> It's not actually a legal risk. It's
just the hospital's own compliance.
>> It's their own internal policies.
>> Yeah. And so, what does it actually look
like in terms of other technological
problems you face? Like what are some
>> maybe just diving into some technical
challenges? Yeah. Um I can imagine for
something like scribing at least to me
intuitively that seems relatively
straightforward as a technical challenge
but perhaps at that scale actually not
so much whether in that one or in some
of the other products you guys have what
are some of the hardest technical
problems you guys face in actually
making software here especially for a
company that is selling to healthcare as
opposed to any other enterprise SAS
company
>> in just the case of scribing simple at
first glance but when you scale you know
you're dealing with millions of hours of
audio that is often being uploaded over
shaky networks in the basement of doc in
you know a hospital in a lab you know
pharmacy that's a you know freestanding
part of a freestanding clinic in rural
America so you have to build great
offline mode and you know retention and
and and the ability to you know upload
these things silently in the background
and all these like traditional
challenges that consumer apps have
solved I think are now being solved in
healthcare as well. Number two, you
know, we process billions of dollars
worth of claims volume every year in our
revenue cycle business. And as part of a
revenue cycle is it's stripe for
healthcare, right? You're the interface
between the physician and the payer and
the payers at a 100 blocks that make it
hard to get paid. Everything from losing
the claim to, you know, not telling you
that it was denied for a couple weeks so
you don't hit your, you know, so you hit
your timely filing limit and then can't
get paid anymore. We've built models
that are constantly checking for all of
these threats. Uh I almost see it as
like a like a cyber security problem.
Every denial is is something broke or
this is the payer trying to attack the
physician. We have to debug what went
wrong and help the physician get paid
out. A good example is all these payers
have APIs now, right?
>> They just work 80% of the time. What
what that means is is that you might get
responses that are, you know, missing
some of the adjudication or there's a
there's a secondary insurance that needs
to pay out and then you need to go
separately hit that secondary insurance
or these two insurance companies aren't
talking to each other and they both got
a medical record but are claiming they
didn't and you have to show them that
audit trail. And so the technical
challenges are are very interesting
because you're doing this at scale and
you need to monitor these processes
constantly. Um but when you solve them,
physicians win, which is very exciting.
>> Yeah. And especially today if they are
your advocates. I mean I think you get
this even I imagine much faster sales
motion than probably in the early days
where if you can show them these
technical solutions and they can
actually advocate and like get your
thing incorporated into their hospital.
I mean that's huge for you guys.
>> I mean for our revenue cycle business
the word of mouth is literally my
revenue went up by 15%. And that is the
most potent word of mouth in in the
world and that's why we're seeing that
business scale so quickly. Um, I think
in our ambient business, the word of
mouth is I save two hours every day and
I did it with this free tool that I
found online and if I want to get it
integrated, it's, you know, like a
hundred bucks a month or whatever the
price is. So that that's to me why why
why I think these tools are spreading so
quickly now.
>> And how do you think about yourself in
terms of a the types of software you
guys have? You know, you call yourself
sort of a compound software company,
sort of a rippling for healthcare as
we've talked about in the past.
>> What's the basis for that strategy? you
know, how do you guys think about growth
and why grow this way versus doubling
down on one of these and trying to make
that be a massive business in itself? I
>> I think the complexities of healthcare
and the way that people get paid in
healthcare and really where the
operating cash flow lies really make it
like you can only really build a hundred
billion dollar business in healthcare as
a platform company. That being said, you
have to start as a point solution. We
started as a med device and then
eventually turned into this again a
point solution for a very specific
subset of claims and then over time
turned into this platform. Uh but now
that we're this platform, we also have
amazing distribution unlocks. We get to
work with General Catalyst and their
health assurance framework. They have 40
health systems that are all signed up.
HCA is on our board. It's hundred
billion dollar hospital empire. And so I
think in the same way that in the 2010s,
Palunteer solved distribution and
defense and a lot of call it like
Fortune 100 uh use cases and then just
aggregated smart people to go work on
crazy problems. We're doing that in
healthcare. The hardest problem in
healthcare having now spent eight nine
years in it is distribution and you can
reinvent the distribution wheel over
eight nine years for yourself or you can
go build you know effectively point
solutions as part of this platform um
and not worry about the revenue engine
because the backend revenue cycle has
that covered
>> right as long as you ultimately have
revenue cycle management at some part of
your platform. Exactly. Kind of works.
>> Exactly. I mean do you think that
changes now in this era of kind of
doctorled advocacy of acquiring software
you know if if for example it is much
easier for hospitals to acquire software
than ever before especially smaller
clinics does that change the calculus
there at all or do you think uh
ultimately the same dynamics lie
>> what you will see is a lot of these like
small couple millionaire ARR businesses
um that might be distributed in this
somewhat novel way now that physicians
realize the productivity gains far
outweigh you know getting wrap on your
knuckles from compliance. It It's an
approach. The issue is is that the
number of companies, there's like 40
different ambient scribing companies.
They all hit like 100 200k in revenue
and then plateau out and then the next
kind of great wall that they hit is, you
know, there's probably a dozen of them
that got to a couple million in revenue
and then they all plateaued out as well.
It's not a venture business in my
opinion. Like a single point solution
unless you rapidly expand distribution
or you rapidly expand your platform,
it's not a venture scale business. I can
imagine then how you think about
counterpositioning to what might be many
new upstart companies thinking about
this like do you think of it as kind of
as long as we own revenue cycle
management you know these folks can
basically help us innovate on companies
on on new areas and basically you guys
would go acquire them
>> yeah our our strategy has been you know
bundle as much as possible in terms of
we think long term
>> it's kind of the original Microsoft
business model too
>> it is 100% the original Microsoft
business model and a great example is um
in the 80s there was a software that
came I'll call Grammatic and it was an a
word correcting software or like a
grammar checking software and you know
it ripped like it it really took off and
and it looked amazing. I think whatever
the equivalent of VCs were in the back,
you know, back then like were super
excited about the business like I'm sure
they raised a lot of money from a lot of
banks or whoever was funding them and
then Microsoft came out with autocorrect
as part of Word and this business just
died and and this will happen
unfortunately to a lot of these LLM
rapper businesses today and particularly
in healthcare. I think there's a whole
host of vanilla point solution scribing
companies that have developed and the
minute Epic turns on their own native
ambient scribe, those businesses will go
poof because they have no connection to
the, you know, revenue cycle, the
payment stack or anything more
meaningful than just that one layer.
>> And actually on on the note of Epic, I
mean, how do you think about
counterpositioning to them? I mean,
they're sort of the kings of
distribution in terms of healthcare, at
least for the last decade.
>> Presumably, you're trying to take their
crown. Um, but how do you think about
counterpositioning against their
existing distribution?
>> Everything I just said is exactly what
Epic would say about us.
>> Yeah, exactly. And so the the way that I
think about it is one of our core
company values is speed. And there are a
group of health systems in this country
who can't wait for Epic to build these
solutions for them over a multi-year
product roadmap. Uh I think the best
stat that I have here is there you know
the two best run health systems in the
country from a four you know from a
profitability standpoint are HCA which
is like 12 billion in free cash flow and
then tenant which is also billions in
free cash flow. Neither of these
companies are are on Epic. In fact they
avoid Epic like the plague. And the
reason is is that Epic often sucks out
all of the operating cash flow of the
academics and businesses that they work
with. You have these like multiundred
million dollar implementations. And the
the way that I see it is if you want to
be a fastmoving growing business, you
probably can't be on Epic because the
CIO's office becomes this captured asset
and they're just waiting for Epic to
release stuff or at least Epic can't be
central to your strategy. Maybe you use
them for your EMR, but you're you're
building the system of engagement and
other tools on top of it and around it.
Um, and and we aim to be that platform
for that system of engagement on top of
the EMR.
>> And it seems like you're innovating on a
very different go to market compared to
them, too. To your point, they're
probably going to the CIO's office.
That's right. You guys, it sounds like
experimenting with ways to go straight
to doctors and then kind of make your
way to the CIO's office from doctor
demand as opposed to from some large
enterprise deal that's forced on
everyone.
>> And ultimately, you have to earn the
trust of the CIO. There's no doubt about
that. But you can build a lot of
momentum and add a lot of value uh
through this physicianled adoption. You
know, even at our largest health system
partners, we have forward deployed
engineering teams that will sit and, you
know, just work with the medical
directors and the leading physicians in
that facility to try to make their day a
little easier. And that's it. That's all
their job is.
>> I mean, much like you and your
co-founder in the early days.
>> Exactly. We try to replicate what worked
in the in the early days into these
forward deployed pods and so far it's
yielded like we a lot of our net new
products and a lot of our net new
initiatives have come from that. Maybe
changing gears a little bit at the end
here is I'd love to just talk a little
bit about how you see the future of
healthcare broadly. I mean you obviously
have had a front row seat to both
participating in and shaping what this
field has looked like for the last
several years. Now on on the flip side
from from my perspective as a patient um
it feels like not a lot has changed from
my experience as a patient over the last
let's say 20 years. So, you know, if I
were to go to a doctor in 2005 versus
2015 versus today,
>> sure, more stuff is on a computer, but
kind of fundamentally I'm kind of
waiting for the same amount of time and
talking to more or less the same people
and maybe there's a couple new things,
but for the most part, it feels very
similar. One, do you think that's an
accurate characterization? And then
also, how do you think of the next 10
years? Like, do you think it's going to
look kind of similar for patients this
upcoming decade?
>> I I think for the most part, I I agree,
which is that the core of the experience
hasn't changed. I think we're starting
to see innovation now on the fringes and
that there's a lot of things that you
had to go in for that you can now do via
teleahalth visit.
>> Co sort of accelerated a lot of this
>> definitely accelerated a lot of that and
and that's great. I think
>> a system that is inherently supply
constraint the more that you can take
out of you know having to actually show
up at this facility and and and you know
wait for someone to see you the better
it is both for the system as well as for
the patient. Where I think we're
starting to see now uh rapid adoption is
the physician's life is starting to
actually become easier in that these
LLMs are saving them time provably, you
know, a couple hours every day. And
because of that, they're either going
to, you know, their panels will open up,
they'll be able to see more patients. So
getting an appointment with a specialist
hopefully starts feeling a little
easier, you know, moving forward. But
then number two, I think on the whole
these systems are starting to adopt AI
based solutions for things like their
front desk to assist with you know call
automation um the you know patient
engagement. We have a system that for
colonoscopy prep it's called engage. It
will send you a reminder and converse
with you based on the source material
and recommendation from the physician
and it boosts it and improves no-show
rates by 50%. um because the the prep
work is done and you know you don't end
up having to cancel the appointment last
minute because you messed something up
and and so those metrics are all moving
in the right direction. I think where
what healthcare should become with LLMs
in the next couple years is, you know,
you should get your most critical care
in a hospital or in a, you know, in
front of a physician where there really
is something like like, you know, phys
physiootherapy, like a P like a PT
actually taking care of you. Um, or
surgeon operating,
>> a surgeon or a deep complex diagnosis
that requires multiple tests in one day.
Those things should happen in in an
office. But with LLMs, more and more
care, I think can transition out of the
home with sensors that monitor the
patient, virtual care. Um, and and I
think that world is finally becoming
real.
>> And what do you see the transition in
that world looking like? I mean, there's
all these pretty deeply baked incentive
systems that incentivize bringing people
into the hospital even for relatively
small things cuz you have to bill for
it. To your point, a lot of the revenue
ultimately comes from RCM. Do you see
that the those sort of entrenched
financial motives actually preventing
that future from happening or do you see
that it's going to happen inevitably
just from like kind of this abundant
intelligence age we're we're entering?
>> I think it will happen inevitably from
you know this the abundance of
intelligence that's emerging. I think a
lot of your your fringe care will will
again just be things that patients can
do entirely on their own. And as a
result, health systems will be forced to
really specialize in in doing those high
margin, high dollar procedures that
they're uniquely good at. And because of
that specialization, I think the quality
of that care will improve as well. And
you know, you see things like intuitive
surgical and like robotic care actually
the fact that it's a thing in in in the
states is is is pretty remarkable. So I
think at the at the highest end
[clears throat] of our spectrum
technology has in fact improved quality
of care meaningfully. There's like new
imunotherapies cleared every year etc.
And then at the very lowest end of
acuity in terms of basic tellahalth
that's improved as well. And it's this
kind of middle that's now going to
massive middle
>> by both by both sides. And hopefully
that the rate at which you know that
that middle gets compressed will be
fast. I mean one of the areas you see
the kind of big research labs most
excited about is you know like Microsoft
for example put out this thing called
medical super intelligence on the path
to medical super intelligence recently
and there's this sort of excitement
around the possibility of actually um in
many ways kind of replacing or or at
least very heavily augmenting but
ultimately fundamentally in the long
term replacing the kind of fundamental
kind of diagnostic process that a lot of
doctors do with
>> super intelligent AI systems you know
ones that could order tests and then
respond to feedback back and iteratively
iteratively work on those. I mean how do
you think about those? Like do you do do
you see that being as part of the
future? And also if that were you know
what do we need to do now to make that
future happen? Like what's kind of
missing in the current world to make
that happen?
>> When it comes to ordering or when it
comes to assessing a test and then
recommending a plan of care these models
will probably surpass humans and if they
have if not like already have have
surpassed humans. the the idea is that
just the way that our regulatory system
is set up from a malpractice standpoint,
litigation standpoint, a billing
standpoint, you probably still want a
responsible party, I think these health
systems will be the mega adopters of a
lot of these tools of intelligence
because it will probably help them from
a malpractice standpoint. If you can
point to a model has synthesized
millions of data points and come to this
conclusion and we are, you know,
basically going through its
recommendations, that's a way better
world than doctor kind of stuck his
finger in the air and guessed what was
happening. And so I I see physicians
embracing what we call these super
intelligent co-pilots that synthesize
information and and take action. You
will probably still for complex things
need to see the physician, get that
final assessment and then the speed and
accuracy at which you go from not
knowing what you have to then something
happening. I think that will get
compressed which is net good. The
reimbursement modalities, I'm I'm not
the world's biggest believer in this
like value based care world. And you
know, we've been talking about it for
like 15 years. I I just think there's
something about simple capitalism that
works well in America which is here's a
service here's a cost and you know we
will improve the accuracy with which we
render XYZ services and maybe that you
know that requires better auditing or
that requires these super intelligence
systems not recommending unnecessary or
incorrect medical procedures but this
procedure driven healthcare world seems
to work like America does have good
healthcare outcomes relative to the rest
of the world.
>> Yeah. And and perhaps, you know, if
there's significantly less unnecessary
care happening where people are able to
triage themselves. Yes. In conversation
with some sort of super intelligent
>> chat system or whatever that system
might be in the future with video and
with sensors and whatnot.
>> Perhaps that opens up the opportunity
for medical professionals to focus on
the cases where you can actually deliver
really great outcomes versus clogging up
ERS with people who don't need to be
there.
>> What 100%.
>> What kind of future do you think that
actually looks like 10 years from now
then? like do you see yourself do you
think we're going to go to the doctor
every year? Do you think we're going to
um only go when like we actually have a
catastrophic issue only or something in
between?
>> I I think in 10 years you're going to
have a lot you're going to have sensors
kind of built into the home. You're
going to have sensors that are you know
wearables on patients. The Apple Watch
and AirPods are becoming medical medical
devices very quickly. And that's a
that's a good thing because that passive
care where you know we can detect things
like aphib and you know detect spikes in
certain biomarkers is really good
because that's that's how you treat them
very very early. the concept of health
insurance and the concept of how care is
rendered is going to look a lot more
like how our cars are are handled in the
sense of like auto insurance
>> catastrophic insurance
>> catastrophic and and so when something
bad you break your arm you have cancer
or you have a you know very complex
disease there will be an insurance
mechanism and really your insurance will
be focused on that kind of care and then
I think the rest of the care it's
actually cheaper for it to be out of
pocket and for it to be you know outside
of the loop and complexity of the
insurance system where you can just get
a direct prescription or you you know
see a provider on teleahalth or even in
person for basic therapy um and because
the system will have shrunk and we have
deleted parts it will become a more
efficient system
>> and do you also see it reverting kind of
back to that version you said in the 80s
and 90s it was great to be a doctor so
>> do you see in many ways the sort of
consolidation we see happening in this
field will at least slow down and
perhaps even revert back to seeing more
people open private practices
>> I I really think so I I I would love a
world where the market cap of United
Health is you know a fifth
>> but every doctor is a millionaire Like
that is a good world for America because
patients are getting treated better. The
people that are actually rendering care
are where value is acrewing. It is
insane to me that if you think about it,
the most valuable healthcare company in
the country, what they effectively do is
like send you a plastic card in the mail
once a year.
>> Yes. There's, you know, it's the straw
man. There's more that they do, but
really at its core, that is your
interaction with Totally.
>> And and then being denied claims perhaps
>> and then denying claims and and so it is
it's an insane system. It needs to
change. Way too much value is accurate
that layer. And I think it needs to come
back to the physician.
>> D, maybe just to wrap things up, you
know, now you've you've been at this for
for quite a while. There's many new
founders excited about thinking about
this current technological moment in
healthcare and AI. You know, what advice
would you give them in terms of how to
compete with someone like you guys? Um,
but also how to build a business that
can endure and kind of capture this
current technological moment. I think
our biggest learning is get in front of
the customer and then just solve
problems for them and and start with one
specific problem even if regardless of
how small it looks. Our first you know
our initial TAM was laughable. It was a
100,000 patients in the entire country
but people and you know our investors
and our team and our you know early you
know founding engineers they took a bet
on us because they believed that we
could take the momentum from that to
build something even bigger. uh and and
so I would just say don't be afraid of
starting very small and very specific
because that is more valuable in the
long term than you know trying to build
a platform from right out the gates. The
other thing that I will say is some of
the best companies being founded right
now are folks that came from the palente
you know did a tour of duty six seven
years at a palunteer solve didn't have
to worry so much about distribution and
just solve problems for customers and
then saw that scale and learned about
the distribution um and so you know my
selfish pitch is like if you're building
in healthcare one of the fastest ways to
both become very wealthy is compound at
a company like Kamir and then also learn
these skills that you would otherwise
have to kind of learn denovo you know,
might take years in in order to amass.
>> Yeah, I totally agree. I mean, I think
one of the best ways to think about it
being becoming a great startup founder
is to work at another great startup, one
that's growing and one where you can get
exposure to customers. I think that kind
of forward deployed role you described
feels a lot like the experience of an
early founder, maybe with perhaps less
total independence, but a lot of the
same skill set that you might gain.
>> 100%. Yeah.
>> And ultimately focusing on making things
people want. Makes sense.
>> Yep. Make things people want.
>> Awesome. Thanks so much. Thanks for
joining us. Great.
>> Appreciate it.