Title: Reducto: Making Human Data LLM-Ready With State-of-the-Art Accuracy
Video ID: QBC_cViA7j8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBC_cViA7j8
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-05-01T15:30:20Z
Duration: PT15M35S
Views: 5990
Likes: 107
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 428

Description:
Reducto just raised $24.5M in Series A funding to help enterprises unlock unstructured data with near-perfect accuracy.

AI teams today are bottlenecked by messy, real-world documents—so Reducto built the most accurate parsing pipeline in the industry. By combining vision-language models with agentic workflows, Reducto turns complex PDFs and scanned documents into structured, LLM-ready data.

Now trusted by companies like Scale AI, Vanta, and top AI teams, Reducto has parsed over 250 million pag

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm excited today to welcome the
founders of Reduto. They went through
the YC batch back in winter 24. So,
welcome Adit and Ronak. Tell us a bit
about what Redu is. Sure. Um, so at
Reduto, we help people take their
really, really complicated documents,
insurance claims and health records and
financial statements and we turn that
into clean structured data that they can
use for any sort of use case. um but
primarily LM based use cases like rag
and summarization and to give a bit of a
context for the audience you guys made a
bunch of progress and actually have a
lot of uh large enterprises using yeah
sure some of them that you can maybe
name drop yeah um so honestly we've been
fortunate to get to work with some
really cool teams in the space uh
companies like Dant um and many more
some of them we can't name but it goes
all the way up to enterprises in the
trillion dollar market caps um where I
think this is a really core or and
fundamental bottleneck for people
building AI applications today. Um so
even though it's been a short period of
a year, uh things have just progressed
really quickly on that front. What's
been impressive is you guys have been
one of the AI companies that have gone
through YC that had seen that really
quick growth just within a year. How did
you come up with the idea? I know there
was a bit of a wandering in the
wilderness for a little bit. you guys
had applied with YC with a very
different idea that was a open source
tool and then eventually landed on
Reduct. Yeah. Um so it started like you
mentioned with uh something very
different. Um Ronic had built long-term
memory for LMS and he was actually I
think one of the first people to do that
ever. Um but at that point it was sort
of this like really cool thing to see
but not something that anybody was
trying to implement in their
applications. Um but over the course of
that, one of the features that's we were
sort of working on is people would
mention, hey, you're managing our user
chat history. Um can you manage the
files that users are uploading to? And
we tried just using off-the-shelf
solutions for that. Nothing really
worked very well. And so what Redu is
say wasn't supposed to be a pivot. Uh we
had this like almost embarrassing
version of a segmentation model like
just thrown into a streamlit app thrown
on Bookface as like a it was literally a
weekend project like slapped together
with a bunch of heruristics and and
things like that. Yeah. Um and that we
just put up as like a blog post of how
to segments your documents effectively.
Um, and again, it wasn't supposed to be
a pivots, but surprisingly that feature
that was supposed to be a marketing
stunt immediately had people saying
like, "Hey, this is better than what I'm
getting from, you know, Textract. Uh,
can you make this an API? Is this
something that I can just pay for on
Stripe?" And I I think over the course
of talking to those teams, we really
started to see that teams that have no
sort of reason to be PDF processing
companies were spending a lot of their
time just on the sort of data ingestion
piece that to them is just a bottleneck
from doing the things that they really
care about. So we sort of abstracted the
problem of like how can we be their
ingestion team for them. Yeah. None of
these like AI application layer
companies like want to be PDF
processors. it's just not something
that's like exciting to them and that's
something that we like are excited about
just abstracting away the problem. We
really say like we try to be the
ingestion team for the companies that we
work with um and try to build our
company in a way that works well for
that. I think what's fascinating about
this idea, I think you both are very
very hardcore engineers and you could
have been in that camp of like oh
processing PDF is like a simple problem.
But the funny thing is that you were
surrounded by community of founders
building AI products and they all still
were struggling with it. There wasn't
nothing around it that worked but nobody
wanted to do it because it was kind of
like boring stuff. Yeah. Honestly, like
we were surprised too um that the
problem wasn't kind of solved. Um when
we were first looking into the problem,
we tried all of the existing solutions
on the market and I was expecting
something to just work, but it didn't.
And that was kind of the aha moment of
like, hey, we should maybe invest in in
this ourselves and try to solve this
problem for other people. Kind of
reminds me a lot of uh the famous PG
essay, the schllelap blindness. Yeah.
It's one of those things that all
developers and AI engineers know about
this that PDF aren't extraction aren't
100%. But we don't want to work on it's
kind of boring. Same thing with like the
example that PG points in his essay is a
stripe. It's like oh people knew back
then that payments processing was kind
of annoying and the API was kind of eh
but nobody really wanted to work on it
and you guys jumped on it and was good.
And I think part of the approach that we
took was we we we made it a more
interesting problem because we took a
different approach than what a lot of
other folks had been doing in the sense
that we turned PDF processing which is
usually just writing a bunch of rules
for how to process this type of file
type and this other type of file type
into a computer vision problem. So the
insight we had is like we are going to
parse and understand these documents the
way humans do and that's really what my
background was in. It was like machine
learning research, computer vision into
autonomous driving and things like that.
Um so I was really excited at the idea
of applying a lot of the techniques from
the computer vision space like to um
processing documents kind of the same
way humans do. That was the start. Yeah.
I think if you look at as this sort of
first principles problem, um there's so
much information that's to us is very
intuitive, right? Like every gap between
two paragraphs is me telling you, hey,
this is like a new piece of semantic
information. Um or a tab is like me
telling you, hey, this is a nested
hierarchy. And when you sort of boil it
from that lens of like how do you try to
read not just a specific type of
invoice, but anything that could be on
the page, um it's a really hard thing to
do. Uh, but it's a fun thing to sort of
work across that long tail. The cool
thing that I remember you guys figure
out doing the badge is that by becoming
the best PDF extraction tool, a lot of
AI enterprise applications just got
better. You guys became this
foundational piece of the new AI
application layer for enterprises. And
you saw a lot of your customers
succeeding with you. Maybe can you tell
us about the gains they saw by using
you? Yeah, this is actually my like
favorite category of customer Slack
message. Um, people will often see end
LLM accuracy improvements just from
swapping the ingestion provider. Uh,
because the data that you provide in is
fundamental to what's being reasoned on.
Um, the like extreme end of the cases,
we've had customers report plus 30%,
sometimes even more if they're dealing
with really challenging documents. Um,
but for almost everyone, there's the
benefits that you get from better
accuracy. We take a lot of the work of
post-processing out of the plate for
them too, like chunking and all that
kind of stuff. Um, and then the question
basically becomes, okay, you have great
data. What do you do from there? And my
favorite category of like improvements
or messages from customers is like this
use case wasn't even possible before
because users were uploading scan
documents that didn't have metadata or
we needed to process I don't know
hundreds of pages in like a few seconds
or something like that that that just no
approach was capable of doing before.
And so all of a sudden they're able to
implement new features into their
applications and products that just
weren't possible before. That's the most
exciting thing to be able to like enable
those like new use cases for customers.
And you guys shipped a lot of this very
quickly. I do remember one of the
examples I saw from you guys. It was
this
uh when people buy homes, there's this
giant Yeah. the questionnaire. The
questionnaire that people real estate
agents fi file by hand and it's like
garble handwriting. and you guys were
able to extract it 100% correct. Yeah.
Um I do think that this is something
that's only possible today. Um we we get
the benefits of not just being able to
use traditional computer vision to get
like bounding boxes and deterministic
outputs but also to capture that long
tail where if you have a snippet of
handwriting BLMs are so much better than
traditional OCR was there. Um and going
back to the sort of analogy of we are
the ingestion team I think it's on us to
sort of find the places where we can get
the best out of each approach uh such
that our customers don't have to think
about whether their questionnaire has
you know checkboxes or handwriting or
any of that and it's even the case where
customers will come to us with like a
very specific kind of thing where maybe
a cell within a table has a green
highlighter circling a a number. Um, and
so that's the kind of thing that we're
really excited to be able to um, handle
where users can even just instruct or
guide our models um, by giving them like
plain text instructions to make changes,
things like this. Yeah. So tell us a bit
about how within just a couple months of
graduating from the YC batch last year,
you guys were one of the few companies
that quickly closed a Fortune 25 company
to become a full and enterprise
customer, not just going through the
whole pilot procurement security, but
actually fully signed the contract.
That's the fastest I ever seen. How was
that journey? Yeah. Um it was intense.
Um to us it felt very long but I hear in
retrospect that it was somewhat fast. Um
so that actually started during the YC
batch. We did our launch YC. Um to us I
remember before we did our launch we
were very big on at least something has
to be substantially better as a result
of what we're releasing. And we scoped
that as we should have a really really
good layout model that will decompose
your document for you. Um and so they
tried a document that I think was
failing in their internal pipeline. and
that worked and so they took that
initial demo call. Um, we were ecstatic.
Uh, I think we sent you a screenshot of
like the form submission. I guess there
was this like constant learning because
neither of us are salespeople. It's not
our background. Um, but really it just
became this question of like can we show
to their team that we will help their
team do something else faster? And uh
going back to that same point like they
had their own internal document
processing team. um that was our real
competitor. Like they tried
off-the-shelf tools, but we were
competing with people that had access to
their distribution of data. Um they knew
what they were evaluating against and
this was all stuff that they wouldn't
reveal to us. They were fine-tuning on
the examples they were like testing on
basically, right? And hard bar to to try
to capture. Yeah. Um and so yeah, it was
this fivemonth ordeal where at first it
would be one meeting and then they'd
say, "Okay, like maybe let's also meet
this other person. He wasn't in the room
today." Um, and it kept going and going
until at some point we spent eight hours
in their office for the full day with
like 14 people from their team um, of
them just grilling us, including the
team that we were competing against who
were like kind of trying to pick at how
we got to where we were. Um, but
fortunately it ended up working out.
We've been working with them for uh, I
guess about half a year now. Uh, and
continuing on. That's very cool. And I
think part of it is I think Ronach you
were able to get reducted to build the
best model ever for document extraction
and that was quite a journey and I think
you guys released a data set and a
benchmark and tried to set the standard.
Tell us about how you guys got got to
basically soda. Yeah. Um it's a hard
problem especially in this space. We
were expecting there to be a lot of
really good quality data sets for us to
to measure up against. Um but we often
saw that in the space of documents like
people just weren't often willing to put
in the like effort that was required to
generate the really high quality data.
So part of that process is in-house. We
um reached out to like teams of PhDs and
we actually like built really really
extensive like data pipelines and like
kind of a data engine in house for us to
be able to sample some of the most like
diverse document data that we could
find. that basically allowed us to start
iterating a lot faster um on our end um
where we could um we could test on any
given case like how are we doing um how
can we compare against all of these
other methods and part of it I think is
also us coming into the equation without
um kind of maybe a lot of the baggage of
like knowing how people were parsing
these documents before um using a bunch
of heruristics and manually parsing
these like PDF documents ment standards
um coming at into it with like a new and
fresh perspective of like hey we're
vision first we're going to read the
document like a human does that I think
unlocked a lot of like maybe novel
approaches um that folks might not have
considered before and you guys have
expanded beyond PDFs right yeah we do
spreadsheets images documents slides at
this point that's very cool so you've
become the the standard for a lot of now
enterprises that need to process all
these tools that are adopting AI is yeah
the tool to use Yeah. Um, people don't
want to fork their pipelines. Um, in the
beginning we really wanted to constrain
our focus because we're a small team and
we need to maintain this accuracy bar
that we set for ourselves. Um, but we
would just constantly get requests of
like please build a spreadsheet endpoint
like I and building this whole separate
pipeline and so we started giving those
options too as well. So, one of the
things that's really cool to see is that
you guys are becoming a key piece of
infrastructure for AI applications and a
lot of AI agents and a lot of the best
YC companies are choosing you guys. Tell
us about why is that and if someone is
building a AI tool or application, why
should they use you? The like big unlock
here is the only reason people were
building this in-house is because it was
stopping them from getting their
products to the quality bar that they
were looking for. And what we are trying
to do is make it so much faster for them
to you know work with the newest models
to focus on you know improving the
post-processing and reasoning after
that. Um, so for honestly any team
whether it's a startup, scale up or
enterprise, um, I really think that
Reduct is a sort of like core infra that
hopefully they see as a tool for them to
leverage and then build off of into
anything that they're looking for from
there. Yeah. And as part of your fund
raise announcement for your series A,
congratulations. You guys are growing
the team a lot. If someone wants to work
for you, what what what kinds of
engineers are you looking for? I think
we're hiring for basically across all of
our engineering roles at the moment.
Product machine learning engineer. Um
the type of people we tend to look for
are really scrappy have been like
startup like founders or uh engineers in
the past. Um and the thing that we
really love to index on is just like
really caring about the details.
um we've hired some folks and like our
first machine learning researcher um
first day he started like training a
model and I just saw him sitting at the
desk and and like clicking through like
thousands of pages of of documents and I
think part of that like surprised me at
first but that's kind of the quality
that you need to have when you're really
building something cutting edge like
reducto for us it's extremely true for
our customers it's also true like the
quality of your data is the quality of
your end outputs and results. All right,
guys. Thank you so much for coming and
chatting with us and again
congratulations on your fundraising our
announcement for your series A. Thanks
sign up.