Title: Fireside with United States Senator Josh Hawley
Video ID: QcCPQSd36vQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QcCPQSd36vQ
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-24T18:02:16Z
Duration: PT24M28S
Views: 477
Likes: 9
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 706

Description:
Interviewed by Luther Lowe, Head of Public Policy at Y Combinator.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I said at the beginning, we're not going
to have uh just an AI conference because
there's been so much conversation uh
about AI in Washington. It's like every
day there's three different AI
conferences, but we want to make an
exception here, Senator Holly, because
you've been such a leader and such an
important voice on this and and
obviously it's it's intertwined with
competition policy. I'm curious,
Senator, um when uh Senator Van or I'm
sorry, Vice President Vance was out in
Paris about a month and a half ago, uh
he gave a a pretty big speech uh about
AI policy. If you had any reaction to
that. Well, first of all, thanks for
having me. It's great to be here. Um and
thank you for the terrific work that
you're doing and the terrific work that
that this group does and for having me
to the summit. Yeah, you know, I think
it's interesting. The Biden
administration when it came to AI
policy, the Biden administration had an
approach that they called safety. You
know, sort of AI safety, which really
sort of boiled down to, in my view, AI
DEI. I mean, that seemed to be sort of
their priority uh in using and training
AI. Uh there are some elements of my
party, the vice president speaks for
some of this, I think, who want to talk
about AI opportunity. I'll just be
honest with you. I'm I'm a little
worried that that means uh rule of the
Robert Baronss, LZ fair, just anything
goes. Let the incumbents who can
currently control 75% or so of
foundation models, let them just keep
going. Um I don't think that ought to be
our framework. I think our framework
ought to be liberty. What is enhancing
to Americans liberty, to our way of
life? What's going to protect our
rights? What's going to protect our
labor? What's going to bring us more
jobs? What's going to make us more
prosperous? And when I say us, I mean
us. I mean everybody. I don't mean
what's going to make a few people on
Wall Street more prosperous. We know
what that looks like. I mean what's
going to enhance the liberty and the
prosperity of the great mass of the
American people, of the middle class, of
our working people. I think that ought
to be our focus. And I think we've got a
lot of work to do to get there. You
know, I think it's a little bit like
I've been thinking over and over about
President Kennedy's speech in in 1963, I
think it was, when he went to Rice
University, maybe it was 62, when he
went to Rice University and gave his
famous moon speech. And he talked then
about the technologies that we were just
on the frontier of. And he said, "We
need to vow that our mission into space,
the technology that we will develop from
that will be for the good of mankind,
will be for the good of the American
republic." I think we need to make a
similar vow as a country when it comes
to AI. AI is is has the potential to be
hugely transformative. We want that to
be transformative in a libertyenhancing
way that protects the liberty and the
prosperity of the American people. And I
I think that ought to be our north star.
Got it. Um how do you deal with you know
when you're talking about there's been
sort of a you know earlier on the stage
we had uh Steve Bannon with Rohead
Chopra Leon was here earlier. you've
been your name comes up a lot in kind of
the conversation around realignment and
this sort of interesting bipartisan uh
work on um you know how do we make
technology uh operate for for working
people and can you tell me about sort of
how you how you think about that? What
is the um you know does that worry you
what the effect of AI will will have on
uh working people? Oh I absolutely it
does. I mean I think we we need to be
honest about this. I mean, the potential
for AI in a very short space to work a
real revolution for middle class folks
is extremely high. I come from a town of
5,000 people. Uh, you know, there's a
number of folks who made their living in
the town as as small town lawyers. Let's
just be honest. I mean, if if AI
continues on this trajectory, I'm
thinking of generative AI. If it
continues on this trajectory, we may be
saying to a lot of those people, you're
not going to have a livelihood anymore.
We're talking about a lot of middle
class folks who support families in
communities like the one I'm from. But
also, we need to be concerned about
labor. I'm thinking of blueco collar
labor. I mean, as we continue with sort
of the robotics revolution, as AI gets
integrated there, who's going to staff
and run warehouses, factories, uh,
trucking. So, yeah, I think there's a
lot to be concerned about there. And
this comes back to we've got to figure
out a path forward that is liberty and
prosperity enhancing. That where we can
say honestly to the middle class in this
country, this is going to be good for
you and your family. Where we can say
honestly to bluecollar workers in this
country, this is going to be good for
you and your family. It's going to make
you more prosperous. It's going to make
you more free. We're going to protect
your rights. And I think something
Congress can do now is we can work on
protecting the rights of individuals in
the AI space. And we haven't done that.
We haven't done anything successfully,
frankly, when it comes to the tech
space. But what we could certainly do is
is we could work on protecting some
basic rights. We know how to number one,
we value property rights in the United
States of America. We know how to assign
property rights. And rather than some
very governmentheavy, regulatoryheavy,
top- down approach, what I would prefer
to do and what I think would be rights
protecting is to say, okay, we're going
to protect the following categories of
rights. personally identifiable
information, uh, data that is
copyrightable or has been copyrighted,
you know, which is creative work,
written material, uh, pictures, things
that can be reduced to a medium. And,
and we're going to say, American laws
traditionally protected all of those
things, we should say to folks, we're
going to protect those in the AI, and
we're not going to do it necessarily
with a a huge new data agency. We're
just going to affirm in American law
that you have property rights in these.
we're going to allow you to go to court
and to protect those property rights and
then we'll allow the market to work. But
I think we we need to put a regime in
place that is protective of working
people and individual Americans and
where everybody knows what the uh
playing field is and that by the way
does not favor the incumbent companies
because what you often find with
regulation I know I don't need to tell
anybody in this crowd is that the huge
incumbents the two or three biggest
companies the monopolist they would love
to have a massive government regulatory
framework because they'd love to write
it in such a way that only they can
comply. ly with it. We don't want that.
We want more competition, not less. We
want more entrance into the market, not
fewer. And I think we can protect
individuals rights and enhance liberty
while also enhancing competition. In
fact, I think those things sit together.
Is that vision? Let me ask you this. Are
you a techno optimist?
Um I I may I don't know about that. Um
I'm a techno concerned. How about that?
Um I because the little tech is is
techno optimistic and that's kind of
part of why I mean everybody's in the in
the back and kind of in the in the aisle
saying what what is this conference
about and I think it's about trying to
to create a space where we can um you
know when I moved to San Francisco in
2007 you used to you went to Stanford so
you kind of breathe the air and drank
the water were around a lot of these
techy folks and you you know this well
but it's like there's a um that's why
I'm not an optimist. No I'm just
kidding.
I I I hear you, but I moved there in
2007. So I moved there in 2007 during
this like web 2 explosion and it was um
and there's just it was optimism and and
there was like this sort of siren song
where you're if you're like a you know
young 20s person, it's like why would
you want to live anywhere else than like
than building a cool uh internet company
right now? Now this is when the web was
more pluralistic. It was more diffused.
It's it's not that way anymore and it's
it's less competitive and that's why I
think the role that YC plays to sort of
fight for little tech Gary my CEO
testifying before the subcommittee
you're part of is there room for techno
optimism in this sort of political space
that that you occupy that that sort of
Lena Khan occupies that that where
there's this sort of overlap and that's
what I'm trying to to figure out what
what part of your vision can a little
tech founder take away and say okay this
is Josh Ali is not like a lette. Well, I
think that this comes back to the point
that we were at I think in the early
1960s. This is a decision that we need
to make together as a society. We need
to ask ourselves, I think we can decide,
are we going to use AI to the
enhancement of our society? Are we going
to use it to further enhance our liberty
and prosperity? Or are we going to be
mastered by it? And so, I'm a I'm a tech
mastery guy. I I want us to decide
together that we're going to master the
technology and use it. President Kennedy
talked about we're going to go to the
moon and we're going to use the
technology we developed there for peace.
We're not going to allow it to become a
field of war. We need to say something
similar now, I think, in this day and
age that we're going to develop these
technologies in a way that enhances our
prosperity and our liberty, that
protects the rights of all Americans.
That's very optimistic, but we've got to
make a choice. So, what I what I'm not
for is, oh, let's just let's just go
along and see what happens, you know? I
mean, let's just allow uh the dominant
companies, let's allow the the biggest
uh big tech players just to do what they
want. Let's let's open it up uh for
them. No holds barred, guys. Just do
whatever you want. Um I think we've seen
what that looks like. We've seen that in
the social media space. It's like a
field of horrors. Um we have seen that
earlier in the 1990s and the early 2000s
with the trade agenda. I don't really
want to play that movie over again
because I think frankly AI is going to
be much more powerful. I think social
media has been transformative in many
ways. That's nothing compared to what AI
is going to be just nothing. So I think
we've got to make a commitment together
as a society and what what you're
fighting for for open markets for open
competition for more that I think is
absolutely essential essential to
achieving that kind of broad-based
liberty and prosperity that I'm talking
about.
Um, is there um I want to go back to the
the Vance speech because one thing that
I thought was really interesting uh
about it was that uh he talked about the
EU AI act. He talked about the digital
services act. He talked about GDPR and
these are all you know for folks that
track European regulation. The all three
of these are pretty unpopular
regulations. He note I think notably
kind of omitted mentioning the digital
markets act which if you remember IOA um
you know sometimes I think people trying
to sort of uh conflate or
mischaracterize IOA said oh that's like
America's DMA but um it is true that
little tech is pro DMA we've we've uh
written letters to President Trump
saying hey uh you know please with
respect to DMA set that aside there's
all kinds of there may be a basis for
for some kind of trade dispute in other
areas, but um it doesn't make sense for
the White House to be putting its neck
out for for Tim Cook and sort of
retaliating against uh
Europe cracking down on anti-competitive
behavior. Um in in a way that really the
little tech companies advocated for. Um,
and I'm just curious if you if how how
you you your office thinks about that
because I feel like um you know on one
hand um you know you know we want to
bring jobs back to America. We want
America to be strong. there there's uh
I'm totally sympathetic to the these
points, but uh with respect to how um if
it's the only tool in in in on the globe
that's you know promoting
interoperability and reducing self-p
preferencing over at Apple and Google um
is there a way to sort of take that off
the negotiation table and encourage that
and can we get something like that in
the US? Yeah, I hope the answer is yes
to both. I I think I agree with you 100%
about where we are in terms of what we
should be doing with Europe. I actually
in the first Trump administration, I
urged then trade rep Bob Lighheiser um
to stop going to bat for the big tech
companies on this very issue. I said,
Bob, why why are you carrying their
water? Uh this is anti-competitive. I
mean, the policies they want, they're
trying to ensh en enshrine globally.
They're trying to get out of these
requirements in Europe. That that's just
anti-competitive. We shouldn't be
helping them with that. We should be
promoting competition in our market and
elsewhere, but especially here at home.
So, I think your first point is well
taken. Should we do something like that
in the United States? Yeah, we ought to
promote interoperability. We ought to um
make sure that that these the big
incumbents aren't self-preerencing,
which we know they are. I mean, Google
is being sued for it at the moment. So,
which is hugely promising incidentally.
But uh I found guilty. Exactly. Exactly
right. And you know, eagerly we await
the remedies, but I think that listen,
this is this is import promoting
competition and making sure that these
incumbents cannot act as monopolists. We
have a rich antitrust tradition in this
country for a reason and it comes back
to my point about liberty. We have an
antitrust tradition. We have antitrust
law because we believe that liberty and
open competition are intimately
connected. And we believe that those
things are the best way to promote the
well-being of normal working Americans.
And just can I make a point about jobs?
I hear a lot of talk about how AI is
going to is going to create hundreds of
thousands of new jobs. I hope that
that's true. And I hope that the jobs
that are created are good jobs that you
can support a family on, not sweeping
floors at a data center or mining in
Greenland, you know. So, I mean, I think
we need to we need to ask ourselves what
really when we talk about the promises
of this technology and when we develop
the technology, this goes back to
mastering the technologies. We think
about how we develop it and how we
deploy it. We need to deploy it in a way
that enhances the prosperity of your
bluecollar worker, of your middle class
professional, not destroys it. Uh, you
know, maybe AI, you can imagine a world
in which AI would raise the country's
GDP by, you know, maybe multiple
percentage points. But if that is all
captured by a small group here and then
everybody else here working in America
is suffering from it, that's not
progress. That's not progress at all.
And I I want to Am I a tech optimist?
I'll be optimistic when this group of
people right here when our middle class
and our working class when they are
benefiting. That's what I what's the
most sort of compelling or like uh
persuasive vision that you've heard
that's been articulated along those
lines? Well, I think that hopefully
we'll be able to use AI technology to
increase worker productivity. You know,
so I don't want to see workers be
displaced. I don't want to see the
warehouses completely empty and filled
with robots. I'll just be honest with
you. If that makes me a lit, sign me up
for it. I don't want to see trucks being
driven entirely autonomously and we lose
the entire trucking industry in the
United States of America. I I I don't
want to see that. Now, if you tell me
there's another vision of that future
where actually we can enhance the
productivity of the factory, we can hand
enhance the productivity of real workers
in the warehouse, we can get those gains
that lead to higher wages. Sign me up
for that. That's I think where we need
to go, what we need to do. But I think
this is again these are choices. These
are social choices that we need to make.
And I hope that when I say we, I mean as
a society. I don't necessarily mean as
government. Um but we we need to I think
think seriously about what what kind of
future do we want to have here. And a
future in which we have an economy that
works for a group of people in Silicon
Valley, God love them, and a group of
people in Wall Street, but nobody else.
And everybody else has to be sustained
by government payments. That's not good.
Like that we don't want that society. We
want a society of broad-based prosperity
and that's what we ought to be using the
technology for. I really um respect you,
Senator Holly, because you were kind of
like the OG on on these issues in the
Republican party. Uh I I will never
forget getting sort of an alert. I think
it was in 2017 when you were attorney
general and it was like just out of the
blue because I'd been going around to
state capitals and talking to a lot of
AG offices, educating them on um on
Google issues. had not yet made a stop
to Missouri and then out of the blue
just flies it drops from the sky uh
attorney general Josh Ali from state of
Missouri is uh bringing antitrust suit
against Google was like wow and then I
think I got on a plane to St. Lewis that
or to Jefferson City that day. Um you
know I uh you have moved the Overton
window uh in the Republican party and
the Senate and you know having lived now
in Washington for about 10 years and
working on these issues. I mean part of
the whole idea of creating sort of a
government relations position within uh
Y Cominator is that this town sometimes
feels like a trimman show run by big
tech. the between the think tanks, the
uh the the front groups, the interest
groups, the the law firms, uh uh the the
econ firms, it is it's, you know, you
throw a rock, you're going to hit
somebody on uh Google, Apple, Facebook,
Amazon, Microsoft, uh pay uh payroll.
And I'm curious like how do you how do
you navigate do they just kind of leave
you alone? I mean, is it kind of like,
you know, I imagine like lobbyists don't
like knock on Bernie Sanders's door, you
know, these people who sort of have
stereotypically the kind of uh, you
know, position themselves in sort of
adversarial ways against particular
industries. um like you you have a front
row view to how Washington operates and
I'm curious like what are the
um you know what is kind of the most
disgusting thing you've seen how to
basically sort of articulate that sort
of how the this works we had uh Brody
Mullins the author of Wolves of K Street
all about the the history of the
industry give us a little insight into
that into that world and then tell us
how you think if you're like the two
guys in a garage and you've got Maybe
you've raised a couple million. You've
got a a cool promising idea. You
definitely don't have enough to afford a
law a lobbying firm or whatever. How
should they be navigating Washington
besides calling me? Well, so two-part
question. Number one, you know, for the
second part, yuckiest K Street stuff and
how do you how do we help how does
little tech help itself in Little Tech
is always is always welcome in the Holly
office and we don't talk much to big
tech or when I say not much, I mean at
all. Um, I think uh I've I've joked, but
it's only like 5% joking that the Senate
ought to have a plaque on the door that
says property of big tech because
seriously just about nothing moves
across that floor that big tech doesn't
want if they don't sign off on it. And
it it doesn't I've learned it doesn't
matter what party's in charge. The
Democrats were just in charge for four
years. To be honest, I actually thought
that might be maybe that would help on
some of these tech issues. Didn't at
all. Chuck Schumer wouldn't bring up
anything of of any import for a vote. We
got unanimous, amazingly in the Senate
Judiciary Committee. Senator Durban and
I were able to work together on really
significant legislation in order to get
rid of CSAM sexual exploitation material
uh to get rid of that online uh that
went right at these big incumbents in
companies. It was passed unanimously out
of the judiciary committee. Yeah. And
couldn't get a vote. Couldn't get a
vote. So listen, nobody has more power
in Washington DC than big tech. And I
remember, you know, do they talk to me?
No. I remember when Mark Zuckerberg, the
last time Mark Zuckerberg came to see me
um in person, um he and I famously,
we've had a number of gorounds and
committees. He was at the Oval Office
while Bannon was on stage today. Oh, I'm
sure. Saw a tweet today. I'm I'm sure.
Um but he came to see me, I guess it
would have been in in 2020 at some
point. And I at the at that time I was I
was challenging him to spin off
Instagram. And I think he had this idea
that well I'll sit down with Holly and
and I'll explain things to him and he'll
understand that what he's saying is
ridiculous and he'll understand that of
course then Facebook now Meta ought to
be able to be allowed to do whatever
they want. So um the meeting didn't go
very well u because it's I'd start out
with me saying so when are you going to
spin off Instagram and he looked at me
and he's like that's the dumbest thing
I've ever heard and I said this is not
going to be a very good meeting and it
all it was just downhill from there. So
since then I don't think we've spoken to
any of the tech incumbents. they just
don't bother with me anymore. They know
what my position is going to be. But but
my view is this, like we it should not
be that the Senate is bought and paid
for by big tech. It should be to go back
to your example of a couple of folks in
a in a garage. Uh they ought to be able
to think, hey, I've got a this is
America. If I invent something that's
great, I should have a great shot to be
able to bring that to market to scale it
up if I'm able to do so. It shouldn't be
that you've got there's these two or
three monopolists who are suffocating
the entire market, suffocating
competition, and that's exactly what
they're doing. And and we all know it.
They've been doing it for years. And
we've got to stop it. And really, there
needs to be there needs to be more
movement in the court system. But we
need to think about what we can do
legislatively to make antirust
enforcement tougher, to put more teeth
into it, uh to give individuals more
control over their personal property
rights, and to promote competition.
But is there I mean is it does it mean
sort of is it campaign finance? Is it
overturning Citizens United? Like it
seems like the core of it is some kind
of uh it's it's you know I think they uh
Clashar said they spent $270 million to
killa a few years ago and so what how
does this little tech have a fighting
chance? I don't have an answer. I I'm
I'm like just I you know are there more
foundational things that have to be
tackled there or is it I mean I think
our hope is that you know authentic
stories of founders and kind of speaking
as sort of a a hive uh will will help
kind of counter counter it but you know
I'm I'm like
legitimately you know looking for ideas
about what we can do to to sort of I
mean do does authent I guess what I
should say is does authenticity do those
authentic stories matter in Congress? or
at the end of the day are is there some
secret deal that causes, you know, the
leader to not bring it to the floor?
Well, I think I think that the stories
really do matter and the proof of that
is it's very hard to vote for the
monopoulos and against startups, against
innovators, against entrepreneurs. It's
very hard to vote for the monopoulos and
against victims if you actually have to
go on the record. And this is why a year
ago in the Senate Judiciary Committee
when Senator Durban and I were able to
put together this bill on CESAM material
and actually Durban as chair insisted on
a vote to his great credit because his
own party tried to talk him out of it.
He insisted on a vote and lo and behold
the vote becomes unanimous. Why? Because
when they actually have to put their
dime down, it is impossible to explain
to constituents. Impossible to explain
why you voted against victims of sexual
exploitation. I think the same is true
for almost all of this. This is why
senators desperately try to keep these
bills out of committee and off the
floor. They don't want to vote on them
and it's why big tech does the same.
They want to make sure there's no light
of day. So, I think what needs to happen
sunshine. I mean, we we need more
transparency and frankly, we need a few
people with courage on key committees
who are willing to say, I'm going to
introduce the legislation. I'm going to
force a vote on the legislation. I'm
going to put people on record and if you
want to overturn Citizens United as part
of that package, I'm all for that. I
think that case is wrong to decide. So,
we've got 19 seconds on the shot clock
here. So, yes or no question. Does do
you think are you more optimistic I
mean, I guess this is actually an easy
question. Are you more optimistic um
with Senator Thun in charge of the
Senate that something like that could
come to the floor? Yeah, I hope so. I
mean, I have to be um as a Republican, I
got to believe in my team. Um but but I
hope that he would look and just see and
and look at the look at the bipartisan
support, but also just look at the
facts. I mean, just ask yourself, do you
want to have competitive markets in this
country or not? Do you want to have
individuals who have some control over
their lives, victims who have some means
of redress or not? And do you want the
country to be run by oligarchs or not? I
mean that's really at the end of the day
a foundational question. Who should have
the power in the country? Should it be
the American people? Should it be the
middle class? Should it be entrepreneurs
and innovators? Should it be the
upstarts? Or should it be this small
group of incumbents who want to control
the power? We've had to answer this
question over and over in American
history. At key points, we have always
answered it. We want the power to be
here. We want the people to have the
power. We want markets to be open. We're
in another period where we need to
answer it again. And I hope that my
party, which was the original antitrust
party, I like to say Republicans
basically invented antitrust. The
Roosevelt, my political hero, the
greatest antitrust president still ever.
I wrote a book about him years ago uh
when I was at Stanford. And uh I still
think we have a lot to learn from him.
And I hope that today's Republican party
will draw on and once again reclaim that
legacy. Senator Holly, uh please give a
round of applause for Senator Holly.
Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. really appreciate so much.
Thank you. Thank you.