Video ID: roI3LfxnqUk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roI3LfxnqUk
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 703
============================================================

[Music]
I am excited to welcome Albert and Santi
from Alf who are fresh off of $29
million series B financing that was led
by Kla. Thank you guys for joining.
>> Yeah, thanks for having us.
>> Maybe it would be great uh if you guys
could just introduce yourselves and tell
us a little bit about what left does.
>> Yeah, so I'm Albert, co-founder, CEO.
I'm Santi co-founder and CTO
>> and yeah, ALF is an AI native FPNA
platform. So what we do is we centralize
in one place all of information that
finance team needs to make decisions and
then we give them some tools to work
with these and do analysis and and I
think one of the core premises is the
idea of meeting finance people where
they are. So finance people live and
breathe spreadsheets. So part of our
product is actually within spreadsheets
and it's an addin that people can use to
work with that data.
>> Very cool. And uh tell us a little bit
about the current state of the business
and uh I know you you guys have some
amazing customers.
>> Yeah, I know. I mean the the main
highlight over the last last couple
weeks is the announcement of our series
B uh 29 million led by Kla participation
from all existing investors. Um so very
exciting and I think and I always think
about funding rounds not about the the
goal itself but a reflection of doing
other things right and I think uh other
things right are some of the amazing
customers that we are lucky to work with
from Zapier Turo to like companies like
Harvey. So yeah we're we're very excited
and very excited about the future as
well.
>> Very cool. And maybe for some of those
customers specifically why do they
choose you guys? Why do they want to
work with uh with LF? What's different
about what you guys have built? Yeah, I
think there there are a few product
decision as product pillars I think have
really resonated with our customers and
and the market in general. I think the
idea of meeting finance people where
they are is a very important one. And I
think it sounds so obvious when I say
it, you know, finance people like
spreadsheets, why wouldn't you just give
them uh a way to work better with
spreadsheets? But I think that's
something that wasn't the existing
market out there. at least not in a way
that resonated with um with like these
uh these finance teams. So I think
that's one. I think there's another one
around like time to value um and how
fast you can get started. And again when
you think about it from first
principles, it doesn't make sense for a
tool like a left to take 6 months to
implement. But that's the standard today
in the market and and companies need to
wait, you know, 3 four months to see the
first ounce of value and like six months
to be fully implemented. we are, you
know, first time to value within a day
or less, maybe sometimes even hours, and
then we're fully implemented in like
one, two weeks. So, I think like that's
a yeah, massive gap and something that
really resonated with our customers.
>> Yeah. Very cool. Maybe take us back to
to the beginning in the early days and
and tell us more about your backgrounds
and how you guys met and ultimately
decided to start this company together.
>> My background, I was a management
consultant. Worked a lot with CFOs and
finance teams while there. I was also in
the finance team of Proctor and Gamble
earlier in my career. So I think that
started to shape and I started to see
all of these problems that CFOs were
facing and their teams and and then I
think it all came together when I was
COO CFO of an early stage startup. So I
was building things myself from the
ground up and some of my background
again I'm you know spreadsheets that
side is very uh very important. I I joke
that I can still challenge anyone on the
team at spreadsheets and give a fair
fight gets harder because we're also
hiring amazing people. Um but I'm also
technical so I would like hack my way
through problems in maybe a way that is
something that is in a slightly
different way that the average uh
finance person. So I think combining
those two I think was the the seed for
the idea uh for a left. But I did know
that in the end I'm more of a hacker
than a than a real you know coder. And I
think that's where you know Santi comes
into play and and compliments very well.
>> Yeah, I can I can share a bit more about
about myself. Yeah, I'm a software
engineer and you know I worked at Google
and other places before I I decided to
do a PhD in computer science and um and
during that that time I did a lot of uh
research around sort of like improving
ways to build software and through that
I did a lot of work on like no code
development tools and that sort of
thing. I actually didn't particularly do
work in sort of like research in
spreadsheets, but that was something
that was very sort of like active in in
the research group I was part of. And I
always loved spreadsheets. Spreadsheets
had this sort of like the best no code
tool ever. That's sort of when I started
chatting with Albert, you know, that
that idea of really um leveraging
spreadsheets and the spreadsheet model.
So like resonated a lot with me and
that's sort of like how we connected.
>> And and you joined right around the time
that you applied to YC, right?
>> Yeah, that's right. I think um we
started chatting and I was helping out
and and I think I I decided to join you
know full-time.
>> Yeah.
>> Um the the time that we got into YC
>> and it was perfect perfect timing. I
remember like in that in that part we
were collaborating before Santi joined
full-time. I remember one Saturday I was
writing also code for authentication and
like user management. I remember calling
Santi hey Santi this is my approach like
it feels like it's safe but what do you
think? Uh we did rewrite all that code
later and like you know if you're a
current if you're a current left
customer you know you shouldn't worry
because Santi Santi rewrote it but like
yeah it was great timing there.
>> Talk a little about what your YC
experience was like. You guys actually
were one of the batches during co right?
>> Yeah it was um I mean it was a great
experience. It was also sort of like
unique because it was like a remote
batch. But I think at the same time it
was it was you know a lot of fun just
listening to the talks and and and even
if we were not here in person it was it
was a great time to so like we we
actually chatted a lot with our batch um
mates and so on. So there was still that
sort of like collaboration um going on
despite being remote. I think it was it
was a very fun experience. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think we're pretty good also
like staying in touch with batchmates.
Actually, there's there's one of them
like the the team at Keeper. I'm meeting
with them like this week again on
Friday. So, I think like from them to
some of the crew that is local to New
York. I think we also did a lot of
events together. So, yeah, I think it
was a good mix of Yeah, probably we
spend less time during the batch doing
YC than we would otherwise have, but
again, had a lot of impact and and we
kept the relationships after as well.
>> Yeah. Talk about the state of the
business when you guys were going
through the YC batch. Did you have
customers or how are you getting
customers in the early days?
>> So, I remember we signed our first
customer um we we had our interview with
um way on a Wednesday and this was like
early May uh 2021
and then we ran out of time. We actually
scheduled a follow-up for Friday and
that was like the a follow-up with
Dalton. I remember he was there and we
closed our first customer on Thursday.
So it was uh you know like the first
part of the interview we had zero
customers and the second part of the YC
interview we actually had one customer
only two days later. So I think it was
it was very early I think like the the
idea the idea was there and I think we
had some of the things that I had coded
back then but like Santi was part-time
so wasn't actively coding and and yeah
it was uh it was very early but we
accelerated quite a bit during those few
months from May until I think the end of
the batch for us was August September uh
2021
>> and how did you get those earliest
customers like especially when you were
so early with with the product and
didn't have a lot of social proof proof
of a lot of other customers using you.
How did you get people to trust you in
the early days?
>> I think a lot of what we lacked in
customers, we did have it in customer
research and having had a lot of
conversations. So I I started working on
this idea in some way or another one
more like in late 2020. And one of the
things I did is just talk to a lot of
people and you know I had I always knew
that I want to do something with data
and like data analytics and like
spreadsheets were a part of it but it
was blurry at first and I think I had
probably you know 150 200 calls with
different people. I was just do like you
know 10 a week for like 20 weeks. So the
the first few customers actually came
from those and and the the first
customer it was like a it's a Mexican
fintech called Confio that are still a
customer today almost 5 years later and
it was one of my early customer
discovery calls and they came back to me
you know year and a half after that
first call and they were hey I remember
you asking about a lot of these
questions that were very interesting did
you end up building something out of it
because we're actually looking for
something that looks very much like what
you described
And and I think I it was the same story
for some of the earlier customers and
yeah using our networks to certain
extent but there was a lot of just
people that were two three four degrees
of separation that just like like the
idea and the approach.
>> It's interesting. I mean it sounds like
you know you've hit on a problem when a
customer is coming back to you like a
year later saying like hey did you solve
that thing?
>> We're still dealing with this. I think
one of the interesting things to me is
like I remember you know working with
you guys during the batch and one thing
that stands out is how much your product
has it has evolved but it the core
concept has stayed the same uh now four
plus years later. What do you think you
got really right early on and and how
did you do that without having to do all
these pivots afterwards to get on the
right track?
>> I I do think it's a little bit of that
like combination of our backgrounds in
some way. I do think that the the first
one from from my side having lived the
pain and I think it's you know very
common YC advice that I 100% agree and
and and like double down on that is if
you're your own customer I think you
develop some empathy for the the problem
that is hard to match otherwise and I
think I had that empathy from being like
my own customer but at the same time I
had 200 other calls I have done so it's
not only I think I had the empathy for
myself but I also understood how others
might want to use it differently. So
yeah, the the the preede deck uh is
still very relevant today. Every time
we're fundraising now, when we did the
series B announcement, I presented the
series the the preede deck back to the
whole team
>> and it's uh yeah, it's scary how much
it's still relevant. Um there's much
more AI today in the vision and I think
you know back then it was preach GPT and
you know it was less relevant but um a
lot of that you know still resonates and
and I think it's part of Santi's
background then of on the way that we
build it. So, not only we didn't pivot,
we didn't have massive, you know,
rewrites of, hey, we're going to throw
away this V0 of the product and we're
going to build it again with a V1 now
that we learn more. Some of the
primitives or the building blocks that
we have in the product are the same
that, you know, we coded in 2021.
>> Was there a moment where you guys uh
like looking back that you felt like you
had product market fit or something that
like kind of gave you conviction that
like yes, like we're on the right track,
this thing is working. I don't know S if
you have an answer for that. I think for
me it was like a thousand of very small
moments rather than one single one and
it was this idea of you know we we have
been growing roughly the same rate for
the last four years and which is like
was less impressive back then and it's
much more impressive as the as the base
starts and I think that was part of the
for me the way that I think about that
looking backwards and again it wasn't
that clear back then is that we always
had product market fit and it was more
of a matter of like the amount of
product that we needed to build in order
to materialize that and to actually like
build a business around that early
product market fit. We always
underestimated how much product but like
there there wasn't like any single
moment at least in my experience.
>> Yeah, I think that's so like the hardest
thing was really building the the
product that that sort of like resonated
with people and there was a lot of
product to build and it was a hard
product to build also.
>> Um but uh but in terms of so like fit I
think that the demand was always there.
What have been some of the hardest parts
of the journey for you guys?
>> I mean, I think the prioritization I
think like that's the one of the the
main um piece of advice I remember from
like back in the YC days is uh asking
you and Dton, hey, you know, we are
working on this. We can do either A or
B. And one of the common things being,
you know, the best startups do both
>> uh A and B. And it's not like an either
or. And and I think again that's like in
the early days that was like a lot and
and I think that the fact that we're
building uh and again it's one of those
things that it was very very hard from a
product perspective managing
expectations with clients you know not
burning our team that was like working
an insane number of hours uh from our
engineering team but also our customer
success team that was like you know
trying to deal with the the product that
that we were giving them. I think like
all of those parts of building a product
that is very horizontal and that can be
used in many ways. I think today we are
reaping the benefits of that in some way
and and it helps us scale faster. But in
the early days there were a lot of you
know workarounds and hacks and like late
nights to make it to a demo or a client
deliverable and and the stakes were
always very high because we people were
trusting us with their financial data.
people were trusting us with they need
to send this to the CEO and the CEO
needs to see the numbers that are coming
from Alf. Um so yeah, a lot of late
nights uh in the early days.
>> What did you do? What did you say to
convince people that they should turn it
all over to your platform and that they
could trust you?
>> Yeah, I think there there was one part
that it's almost like a given that the
security and like all of that was always
like pristine and very robust. I think
we were sock certified when we were like
three people in the company. So even
those like very very I think we had
something like 100k in the bank. I think
the YC check hadn't hit yet.
>> Yeah.
>> And we spent you know 10 of those 100k
in like our sock 2 certification. So I
think that that part was very important
and it still is today. But I think there
was something about like the team and
and again like our customer success team
and this idea of we won't let you fail,
right? And and like we're hoping that
it's going to be 99% the product and 1%
someone that is going to help you, but
like if for some workflow it needs to be
50/50. we're gonna do the work for you
and like we're gonna make sure that
you're gonna be able to report on time
that you're gonna be able to report
accurately and and again today it's 100%
the product I would say or very close to
100 in the early days we had some our
customer success team you know review
the numbers with the clients before
sending them report over and I think
they were a little bit like the the
heroes of those early days
>> right there's a lot of manual stuff
behind the scenes that probably goes
unrecognized right
>> yeah yeah there's a there's
a few nice memes about that in in the
company and the kind of like the
mechanical Turk kind of uh but yeah
again it's the very very traditional YC
advice of doing things that don't scale
and then and then building from there
and I think we
>> yeah we sometimes took that to a fault
but it did help us a lot in the in the
early days
>> you know I know you've grown pretty
consistently over the years do you look
back on any moments as being like an
inflection point that kind of got you to
that next that next tier
>> I think there were many I think
typically a lot of them were like I go
back to the team and the team being you
know I was talking about the customer
success team talk about the engineering
team so I think like probably the the
inflection points were
>> people joining the team from even when
Santi joined full-time is probably one
of the biggest inflection points of them
all
>> but all the way to even now where like
there's you know many hires that were
like very excited and and almost all
hires that were like hey we really see
how this person can impact thee
trajectory of the company and and again
at so many different levels, right? And
it doesn't matter. It doesn't need to be
someone that is like, you know, CTO. I I
think there's now we're a bigger
company. There's like more scope that
people can make an impact even like
starting with something very small.
>> Mhm. And what does the future look like
for ALF? What are you excited about as
you look out over the next few years
>> now that we announced the series B? And
and then Santi will love your your
thoughts as well. But like one of the
one of the things I was saying as I was
reflecting back is that when we reach
the series I thought that that was going
to let us achieve the product vision and
like we know we have Siri it was like 12
million that's a lot of money now we can
build the product and I think now a
couple years later I'm you know I'm
probably older and a little bit wiser
and I'm accepting that we'll never get
there because we always keep redefining
what is and and set ourselves more
ambitious goals and and I think now
Again, it's I'm not hoping that the
product is going to be done, but I'm
very excited by what it means. And and
it's when a lot of the easy part of the
products, there's a lot of the the
plumbing of the product that is, you
know, integrations and permissions and
they're not sexy and they're not the
parts that are going to be flashy, but
like now we feel that all of those are
there and all of those are in place and
we can start building much more
interesting stuff. And again, I think AI
is very front and center. we're like
very pragmatic and we see AI more of a
means to an end rather than let's just
like you know slap AI on a new workflow
but like some of the things that our
customers are using today and some of
the things that we are working on uh we
think that kind of like really change
the way that some of these finance teams
work. So we're very excited to see uh
those in actions over the next you know
couple of quarters in some way.
>> I always always tell our engineers when
they join you know there's sort of like
there's a lot left to build. So in some
sense there's like infinite scope for
you to grow and and there's a lot that
we want to build in the product and yeah
definitely now doing a lot of stuff on
on AI which I think you know has a huge
potential to to really improve the the
productivity of our customers and it's a
sort of like an interesting technical
challenge as well because you know we
were talking about sort of like security
and so on like in in in the in the space
in which we operate like accuracy
matters a lot so we need to spend a lot
of time you know making sure that the
that everything we put out there works
works well. So, lots of lots of work
there, but we're seeing sort of like
good results.
>> Yeah, I think it's one where like piggy
backing on the the last thing as Santi
said, I think there's many um areas
where AI works well out of the box. I do
think that the impact that we as a team
can have between like what the base
level of like the model performance is
and what we can achieve by you know
curating the workflow and and like you
know adding intelligence on top of that.
I think like there's very few areas and
few industries where you can add more
value on the application layer than this
where there there's a lot of limitations
and workarounds that you need to work
on.
>> You know, obviously following the series
B, you all are hiring uh for a number of
roles. What is the ideal person who
comes to work and and ends up being
successful at a left like what are the
qualities of that person that you're
looking for?
>> I think there are a few that for us are
very important, you know,
non-negotiable. I think low ego is
probably one of the main ones and like
someone that you know cares more about
the the quality of the work than about
who does it that like can be willing to
do whatever it takes and like sometimes
you know again we're adjusting a little
bit the way that we operate as teams in
the engineering side and Santi spend the
weekend you know doing almost data entry
and like reassigning you know issues to
different teams and because that's the
shortest path to value and that's what
like generates the most impact So being
able to do that and and not you know
thinking that tasks are beneath you. I
think we think a lot about like empathy
and empathy for the customer and trying
to put yourself in the shoes of of
others. I think it's very important and
there's a little bit of not taking
yourself too seriously and you know we
we work many hours. We're not like no
996 or anything like that but like we we
do work hard and I think that if you can
have fun while working hard that you
know makes it so much better. So, so I
think we we have a very strong meme meme
game as a company and like you know
people always joking. So I think that's
an important part of the culture as
well.
>> Yeah, I think we also have a
collaborative culture. So going back to
also like low ego and so on you know
having people that are easy to work
with. Um I think that that that's an
important aspect of it.
>> How have you guys changed as founders
over the last four four and a half
years?
>> More more gray hairs.
>> Yeah, more gray hair.
>> Uh so I don't know. I think for me and
then to develop your thoughts as well. I
think for me there was something
interesting in the transition from my
individual output matters a lot
>> to you know helping others and working
with others can amplify my work much
more. Um I think three four years ago I
would you know work myself on the
weekend and I would work on I know like
a spreadsheet or I would like code
something and I would my output would
matter more you know one for one as a
unit of work. I think now in the
weekends I try to like you know write
and I try to think you know I'm like
doing much more abstract problems
because I think that like and helping
set the direction and helping you know
other like some of the teams that we
have today work you know in a more
aligned fashion and like understand more
you know the other side matters more
than you know me writing you know 100 or
lines of code or or something like that.
So I think like that's been that's been
a change and and it's exciting. It's
every stage of the company has its own
set of challenges. So I think it's fun
the fact that they keep changing all the
time.
>> Similarly for me you know the role of a
CTO in a high growth startup you
basically have to like reinvent yourself
every year or so because you know I
started coding then the then we hired a
bunch of engineers. I was a manager even
more engineers. manager and manager sort
of like things change a lot and um and
it it was a lot of fun, right? It is a
lot of fun, but you have to be sort of
like willing to to reinvent yourself and
and and learn what learn whatever it is
that you need to to learn to to make the
the you know the product the company
move forward.
>> If you guys had a chance to go back in
time and tell yourselves during the YC
batch some piece of advice, what's the
thing you wish you knew then? I think
you know one one of the things that I
remember from um uh YC was this sort of
like um this idea of sort of like you
know in some sense like never give up
sort of like you know keep keep working
and keep trying like that that a lot of
the like the startups that fail in some
sense are the ones that to some extent
sort of like um give up I don't know if
that's still accurate very true okay um
and so I think that that's sort of like
one of the one of the sort of key
learnings I I I remember from from from
from YC. So I think, you know, it's
always sort of like keep trying. You
know, maybe we didn't sort of like close
this customer. All right, that sucks. On
to the next one. Like what do we need to
to close this one? And sort of like
never give up and and keep trying.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mentioned a few, you know,
throughout of things that I think remind
me of YC. Maybe one that I haven't
mentioned is not getting yourself too
distracted by competitors of this idea
of in the end like you know most
startups die by suicide, not murder. And
like in the end like you're your worst
enemy. And and I think it's you should
never be complacent and I think you
should understand competitors. You
should understand why you're better and
different by the idea of yeah there's
always going to be things happening and
if you focus on yourself and like you
know talking to customers adding value
that's what going to compound more in
the long term than like you know one
extra feature or like comparing yourself
to others too much. So I think yeah that
was true for us back then and I think
it's still true today you know four or
five years later.
>> Well thank you guys so much for joining.
>> Thank you. Great.
>> Thanks for having us.
[Music]