Title: How Diode Is 10x-ing Hardware Design
Video ID: ryHJuYzUejs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ryHJuYzUejs
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-07-23T14:44:15Z
Duration: PT15M29S
Views: 8958
Likes: 264
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 457

Description:
Davide Asnaghi and Lenny Khazan started Diode Computers with a question: why does hardware design still move so slowly? Drawing on their backgrounds in software and electrical engineering, they set out to reframe circuit board design as a software problem. One that AI could help solve.

They went from building a tool to catch design mistakes to creating an end-to-end AI-powered system that generates production-ready boards. Along the way, they discovered that most companies didn’t want a better 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
I'm excited today to welcome the
founders of Dio, Davidid and Lenny. They
just closed their series A for 11.4
million led by A16Z. And you guys just
went through the batch just a year ago
in the summer 24 batch. So pretty quick
growth. What are you guys building?
>> Diet is using AI to automate circuit
board design. You can think about us as
AI enabled design shop for printed
circuit boards.
>> Who are the customers that are using
you? So, it's been a pretty rapid growth
within just one year.
>> Yeah, we we've been very lucky. We work
with Fortune 100 companies as well as
larger like uh startup companies like
physical intelligence which is robotic
foundation model company and Seronic
which builds autonomous boats uh as well
as like smaller startups that need board
design.
>> Take us to the beginning. So just a year
ago both of you were still in your
previous jobs when you had applied to YC
and in fact you were still in your jobs
few days before the batch started. Tell
us about that journey. What what were
you doing? How you decided to work
together?
>> Yeah our origin story actually goes
quite a bit before that. Um so back
during COVID when I was uh still in
college I was a software engineer at
this company that was also building
hardware and I realized like kind of the
interesting problems at this company
were happening on the hardware side and
so I asked to join their hardware team
and had the good fortune of getting
assigned a day as my intern mentor uh
who graciously took me under his wing
and showed me the ropes of what it's
like to be building hardware um and I
kind of got exposed to to this world of
building physical things. Um and thought
it was super exciting and super fun. So
fast forward to you know the previous
job where we were working together. Um,
we were also working on a hardware
product. I was, you know, more on the
software side. Davity, you know, a bit
more in touch with the electrical side.
And, and we found that despite working
with like, you know, the some of the
best engineers I've worked with in my
career. Um, you know, we'd find that,
you know, circuit boards would come back
with like silly mistakes in them because
the tooling wasn't there to help you
out. And as a software engineer, I'm
used to being able to make mistakes,
find them in 30 seconds, and fix them.
And I realized very quickly that in
electrical engineering, that's basically
not how things work. And that was kind
of the origin of how we decided to kick
things off and see if we could do
something to improve this state of the
art.
>> We had some experience designing u
custom silicon and we saw like
incredibly talented engineers basically
oneshot these very complicated uh like
TSMC designs and we just wanted the same
for printed circuit boards. We we just
found that the tooling was not um up to
par. I was personally like very
enthusiastic about how large language
models uh can start to parse the
documentation and c like they were able
to catch those silly mistakes but you
needed to give them like a
representation on like to understand
what the electrical design would look
like and so we effectively applied to YC
um with this idea of will give us your
electrical design and we'll spot the
mistakes. You spoke to over hundred
people in the first couple weeks of the
batch, have all these user conversations
and you found out people didn't really
want that.
>> That's right. It was actually quite um
quite interesting and very humbling.
Like the original problem statement was
I like am able to design printed circuit
boards, but I want the software to tell
me if I'm making some mistakes the same
way that a compiler will tell me if I'm
making mistakes while writing software.
But when we went out and like pitched
this idea and we we really built a lot
of like infrastructure and like
interesting stuff like we had this
generative pipeline that would like
create boards and then inject mistakes
into them we could use to like
reinforcement train the algorithm that
would catch them. People basically told
us we don't make mistakes like we don't
need this. I'm sorry. Whether that's
true or not it doesn't matter but it
really speaks to the fact that like
talking to customers is really really
important. And so like at some point we
had to recognize that the the pain point
was not finding the mistakes within the
uh existing design but it was actually
like generating that design itself.
>> And there was some interesting happen
stance from you guys just being in the
YC batch that you got more lucky to find
the right problems because you were
surrounded by all these ambitious fellow
YC batchmates that you then stumbled
into the actual idea for diode. tell us
about that journey.
>> Um, that's right. After like uh an
office hours where we actually told you
like, hey, like I don't think that the
verification stuff is working out. We
will we'll need to go back to the
drawing boards. We were very somberly
like having lunch with a really good
friend of ours uh who who happened to be
selling like uh edge models to robotics
companies. And like he basically told us
look like I don't know if this can be
useful to you but we consistently hear
that all of our customers seem to want a
custom Jetson or uh like development
board and like the Jetson or is a edge
GPU made by Nvidia like very common for
like developing robotics application and
we realized this would be like very easy
for us to do and very easy for us to
generate and from that like kernel of
information which I don't think we would
have really stumbled upon so quickly if
we hadn't been surrounded by other YC
batches
like batchmates. We went we went out and
like closed our first deal like right
away. That was like a really interesting
moment from an other YC company.
>> You got an instant yes on your first
user conversation whereas the previous
time you talked to over 100 people and
they were all basic lukewarm pretty much
nos. Right.
>> That's right. That was a really good
validation. The interesting part is that
people didn't want a component of the
solution. They wanted the solution. they
didn't want just the tool that makes
their job a bit easier. Like the biggest
pain point was that there's not that
many people that can actually design
circuit boards um in the US. Uh and so
for for a lot of companies, it's hard to
like find the right talent and like
bring it in house in the early stages of
like prototyping and even for larger
companies, it's very often that they
outsource this type of projects if you
don't have bandwidth to do all the
things that you want to do. And so it
turns out that uh diode can really help
with that. like generating boards is
where the pain point is at.
>> Which is super interesting because in
the process of building the software to
verify circuit boards, you had built one
part of the type pipeline that would
generate boards to really go through the
iterations of them and that's what
people wanted.
>> That's right.
>> It was a bit counterintuitive as well
because you both I remember we had this
office hours and you were confused. It's
like how do we even build this into a
venture scale business, right? because
you are effectively selling at that
point services to design boards. So how
do you guys square that? How how did it
come about?
>> I think that um the realization came
from the fact that for the first time in
a very long time we can design software
that makes us incredibly productive at
like solving the problem end to end. And
the 8020 problem like a lot of products
in the AI world kind of fail because you
will never be 100% correct in every
single thing that you do. Uh but when
you are like an expert in a specific
domain and you can solve the 8020
problem um it now becomes possible for
you to actually like package this
solution and sell it as effectively like
services as a product. It's working in a
way that um we hadn't anticipated
before. uh but we really take ownership
on our product and the output of our
work and this is what our clients demand
in terms of solution like we use AI to
automate the internal working of diode
but then this is not something that we
just put out into the world without
verifying that the output is actually
correct uh we own the verification
pipeline and we make sure that anything
that we deliver to a client will
actually work that we have like
acceptance criteria with them uh it very
much resembles like traditional
development it's just faster um and uh
more efficient.
>> Yeah, I think the core insight here is
if you could reframe the PCB design
problem as a software problem. You can
take all the great learnings that have
happened in the world of software both
in terms of verification and compilers
that will tell you if you're making a
mistake as well as applying all the
great research and and work that's going
into automating software engineering and
uh make that accessible to the world of
PCB design as well. And you're basically
able to benefit from from that with the
work that we do for our customers. So I
think the really cool thing is you
basically have software margins for this
PCB design services because of AI,
right? And this is only possible now.
Tell us about what would happen using
the largest models and latest one.
>> Yeah, I think the interesting thing is
like if you look at those models today,
they know everything they need to be
electrical engineers. They have the
innate knowledge of uh how circuit
boards work, how they need to get wired
up, the rules that electrical engineers
spend years learning as well. They just
like don't really have the mechanism to
do the work that an electrical engineer
does cuz traditional tooling is very
visual and graphical. Hasn't really
changed much since maybe the 80s or so.
And so all you really need to do is
basically just convert it into a form
that's similar to what they're used to
doing, which is writing code. And then
all of that knowledge that they have can
start being expressed into the boards
that they design as well. And so you can
kind of unlock this like latent
capability that these models already
have.
>> Um, another interesting learning is that
one of the reasons why this hasn't
happened yet is that traditionally like
incredibly smart electrical engineers
have been trained in this very visual
way. And so there are some benefits even
for humans to like reason about things
in code. That's why like um RTL or the
regist transfer language for custom
silicon is written in code. But the the
the the workforce we have currently is
very like traditionally trained in
visual processing. And so because the
models are really the ones writing this
code, we can now let them write it and
just like export a visual representation
to our users, which is what they're used
to. So we don't need to actually teach
humans that have incredible domain
knowledge about code. We can just like
generate it in the back end as a
implementation detail. I personally
happen to think that like reading that
code is very enjoyable. Uh but we we
don't want to force it on anybody and so
the output that we give is very
traditional but it just allows the model
to have an intermediate representation
that they can modify.
>> I think one interesting stat you shared
is just the two of you you've been able
to decide design over 100 boards in the
last couple of months which is crazy. A
regular electrical engineer would only
be able to output a couple. I think it
depends on the complexity of the boards.
Um, but there are incredibly talented
engineers that are also fast. Um, but we
have to manage a lot of different
clients. Uh, and it would be impossible
to do uh without the like software tools
that Lenny and his team build inside
diode. So like the way that we divide
the work inside diode is that I had the
electrical engineering team, Lenny has
the software team. And so we are
effectively their first client. And in
the early stages, especially during the
batch, it was just the two of us. And so
he would like craft these incredibly
high-end software tools that I would use
to speed up myself. Um, that was
incredibly valuable. I I've always
personally like really wanted to have
these tools. Uh, there are some open
source tools in the world of electronics
like Kik, which are incredibly like big
fans of um, but he really built a
fantastic layer on top that allows us to
go even faster than that. So you've done
very interesting technical choices to be
able to serve in these very old school
industries selling to aerospace medical
device. That's not a easy feat because a
lot of them tend to be very conservative
with adopting new tech. What are the
technical choices you've done that you
actually close this large Fortune 100
and all these cool tech companies in
hardware? Yeah. So I think there's a lot
of really interesting technical
questions and problems we have to solve.
Um the first of them is even just
designing the language that we use to
represent the schematics. We have this
kind of novel challenge of designing a
language that works really well for
humans and also works really well for
LLMs because we want LM to be able to
generate this code. And LM have, you
know, millions and millions of lines of
code in their training data. And so if
you design a language that's very
familiar to them, they'll do a much
better job at not making syntax errors
and kind of writing code in a way that's
natural to them. But at the same time it
has to be something that's intuitive and
readable for the humans like on David's
team to go and review the code, write
some of their own as well. Um, so I
think that was kind of an interesting
set of challenges we had to make. And
then once we design the language, we
have to design the infrastructure in a
way that's easy to compartmentalize and
deploy in settings where there's really
rigorous security requirements. For
example, working with aerospace
companies where it needs to run on an
air gap system, for example. Um and so
we have this kind of really tight rust
compiler which is uh implements the core
logic of our um implementation but we
also then have you know bindings to was
so we can run this in the browser and
have nice visualizations and compile
schematics in real time locally um for
our users to review. Um we can
automatically generate configuration
blocks for configurable modules where
users can go on the website change the
configuration of their buck converter or
what have you and see the schematic get
recompiled in their browser in real
time. And this is all kind of enabled by
this kind of uh really tight isolated
like offline core component that uh
powers the the infrastructure we've
built.
>> I think this is one of those companies
that only you two could have built
because it's a unique way of uh
approaching hardware design for circuit
boards as a software problem with with
Lenny right and the experience on
hardware. So what are you excited about
the future? I I personally love the fact
that I see the world around me changing
incredibly fast and I see like AI really
10xing our software development speed.
But the the thing that excites me the
most is taking this incredibly powerful
um like set of forces and actually
applying them to uh like the physical
world like designing physical object in
physical space. I think this this is
really the next frontier. This actually
has been fantastic for recruiting.
There's a lot of really smart software
engineers that are looking for the next
like Everest to like uh climb and and we
really think hardware is the next
frontier of like really hard challenges.
Hardware and like generating these
boards and putting them in the real
world and making sure they work reliably
and using AI to solve these problems is
really what I think will like move
civilization forward.
>> What are the kinds of people that you
want to hire? Well, I mean, I think on
the software side, um, you know, we want
people who are curious and excited to be
exploring like entirely new frontiers
with open-ended questions. Um, like I
said, we have a lot of questions where
we know what the problem we solve is,
but the solution can look one of 10
different ways. And so, we need people
who are excited to kind of go and and
try experimenting and prototyping and
answering these kind of open questions.
Um, so kind of fun researchy type
problems, but at the same time, we need
to ship products, we ship boards, and so
it's like very practical and applied.
And I think the the other kinds of
engineers who we really love working
with are people who are excited to build
cool experiences for our customers and
users to interact with the boards we
design, right? So, we have to be able to
hand over the designs to our customers
and they need to be able to inspect
them, review them, give feedback. Um,
and so building these kinds of like
great interfaces, I think, is um also
something we're really excited to press
the accelerator on.
>> Well, congrats against on your series A.
>> Thank you. Thanks, Diana.
[Music]