Title: Context Engineering: Lessons Learned from Scaling CoCounsel
Video ID: sLFv3RSj_d8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLFv3RSj_d8
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-08-25T16:03:14Z
Duration: PT20M24S
Views: 12459
Likes: 366
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 589

Description:
Jake Heller has spent years building AI tools for lawyers. With early access to GPT-4, he and his team realized the model could finally perform legal work at a professional level—scoring in the 90th percentile on the bar exam where GPT-3.5 had only reached the 10th. That breakthrough led to Co-Counsel, an AI legal assistant for research and contracts, and eventually to Casetext’s acquisition by Thomson Reuters.

In this video, Jake breaks down what it takes to turn powerful models into reliable 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

All right. Um, hey everybody. My name is
Jake. We're going to be talking about uh
lessons we learned in what we used to
call prompt engineering may still in the
future call prompt engineering while
building a product called co-consel. So
uh you might be wondering like who the
heck is this guy and why am I listening
to him. Very brief background. Um I
founded a company called Kstax 12 years
ago. Uh summer 13 at YC. So it's been a
minute. Uh I am that old in fact. Uh
fast forward like 9 years and we were
working on AI and law for the entirety
of our existence and as a result we got
early access to GPT4. We were just very
close with open AI before even chat GPT
came out we were using GPT4 and what we
noticed immediately and I'll get these
two bullet points out at the same time.
So we built this we started pivoting the
entire company essentially around uh
co-ounsel we had a different business it
was based in AI it was business in in
law but we pivoted the entire company
around chat around uh GPT4 because what
we saw early on was that GPT4 could
finally unlike GPT3 or 3.5 or any other
model we've seen or developed ourselves
was able to do complex legal tasks at a
rate that was not perfect but was also
around the same rate that humans can do
for a lot of these tasks. And of course,
you can scale it, unlike humans, to
hundreds of different things, uh, tasks
at the same time. And even if you
couldn't scale it in certain
circumstances, still faster than people.
So, you had something all of a sudden
that was faster and better at legal
tasks, the area that we served. And that
blew us away. were the guys that did the
study that showed that GPT3.5 scored in
the 10th percentile on the bar
examination. But when you did GPT4 on
the same exam, it got to the 90th
percentile. And this is an exam that was
not in the training set on like
basically all the uh here we go the eval
today. Um and so we were just absolutely
blown away with this model and built a
whole product and company around it.
like f you know it was pretty massively
successful in legal the idea of having
the first AI assistant for lawyers um
it's something that a lot of our
customers were looking for this
functionality that we were offering
through co-consel it's something that
they'd been asking for us for like the
first decade of our business and we're
like that's ridiculous we can't build
that we need some genius AI to do that
and then all of a sudden you know kind
of handed to us so we're able to to be
successful uh in part because we're just
doing what our customers asked for and
based on that success uh we were you
acquired by a company called Thompson
Writers uh in 2023. So, literally two
days ago was my 2-year anniversary,
which when you all do the acquisition
thing, you'll find out is a very
important milestone. Uh and uh and uh
you know, we've continued to hone some
of the uh prompt engineering or context
engineering techniques since then, which
is why we're talking to you about it
now. Um, before I get into the fun and
meat stuff, just in order of semantics,
I'm actually not sure about context
engineering as the meme. It may or may
not be the right thing because as I'll
talk about, I think that most prompts
are instruction plus context. At least
most prompts of consequence. Instruction
plus context. So to call it context
engineering is really talking about in
some sense one part of it, but it's just
semantics. Let's get into the actual um
you know how to do it whatever you want
to call it. From a high level there are
really three big steps that we took when
we're developing coconsil that I think
still apply today. The first is um and
this is developing the whole application
and then we'll like work backwards from
there to where each step of the
application fits in and then how each
prompt or context whatever you want to
call it these days uh fits into that. So
the first big step big big picture is
like what is the experience you're
trying to deliver to customers. In our
case it was uh a suite of different what
we called skills that co-consul could
do. So imagine co-consil almost like
chat GPT with tools basically and each
tool was another skill and those skills
could be things like do complex legal
research or read over a hundred or a
thousand documents and tell me what's in
them or review a contract and tell me
what needs to change in order to be like
what my company needs. And these skills
mapped on for us pretty well to what
actual lawyer skills would do. These are
the kind of skills that if you're a
lawyer you might list on a resume of
skills like here are the things I can
do. I could do research, I could do
contract review, etc. That's the way we
thought about it's not the only way to
think about it. But in our case, it was
a chat application with tools. Your case
might be a big button you press and then
it randomly generates a poem or it might
be uh upload a document, analyze a
document, something comes out. But there
might be different UIs. But but be
really mindful about what is like the
ideal customer experience. And then from
there, for us anyways, we ask how will
the world's best lawyer
do that task?
So for legal research to use as a
concrete example the world's best lawyer
with like an infinite amount of time
would take the question given to them
and maybe first they just clarify. So
prompt one clarify what is you know I
need to understand is you trying to
search just federal case law or state
case law are you trying to uh understand
this angle or that angle right so there
might be a clarification step and in
fact you saw this creep out later in
deep research one of the iterations from
chat GPT if you saw that right so maybe
that's one step but after the
clarification step then you have a step
where you formulate a number of search
queries that's what I would do if I was
a a real legal researcher as a lawyer as
I did before Ksix as a lawyer. So, you
know, so I might, you know, try this
kind of search query, that kind of
search query, the kinds of words, that
kind of words, maybe 20 or 30 or 50
different search queries and then I'd
execute those search queries and review
each of the results one by one. And the
best law in the world would read every
single page of every single result that
came back and analyze, is this actually
relevant to what I'm doing? If so, how
does it help answer the question? Maybe
I'll make some notes about how this case
relates uh to the to the final answer.
compile that into a big notepad and then
finally I take all those notes and
compile it into a final answer I give to
my my client. Those are the steps for
that that task. Sometimes the tasks will
be pretty linear and predictable and in
that case don't be agentic behind the
scenes. Just just program it in like if
you imagine Python code it's like deaf
step one def step two step three and
then you just like literally just you
know do task def one def two def
whatever step one step two step three
right. Um so sometimes it's like really
linear and sometimes it's aentic. It's
like actually if you do a number of
searches but if you realize you're not
finding what you're looking for then go
back to step one and try some more
searches. Try some other you know right?
So you have to figure out for yourself
how would the best person do this and
are they acting more agentically so to
speak or more just steps. So how would
the best person in the world do this?
That's your architecture for that skill
or task or whatever in my opinion.
That's at least version one or version
zero. There may be things that humans
aren't even able to do that the world's
best X could not even comprehensively
you know there's no way that they could
possibly do it. Then maybe you can be a
little creative here. But I'd start with
how the world's best human attack attack
this problem. And then within that there
are multiple micro steps. I told you
some of them. Clarify this the search
query. Um run number this number of
searches. Review the results that came
back from the searches. Review um based
on those results, you know, start making
notes. These are all micro steps and
there may be micro steps within that.
Each micro step is either code or
prompt. And increasingly in difficult
tasks that we're all doing these days
that were un impossible to do like
unthinkable to do before GPT4 basically
but there's now possible to do those are
mostly going to be prompts.
So that's that's that's how you work
down to like the prompt level and just
it's important as a developer to
understand where in the flow what this
what is the the job of each prompt right
like what is the job of each prompt
doing when it's trying to accomplish
this task for the user
from there you have to make the prompt
actually work and this is where most
people try and fail and then move on
because they're like this is an
impossible problem to solve I'm not
going to build an AI application so the
the First thing I recommend like the way
the method that we we work through and
it's pretty simplistic but you'd be
surprised about how few people do it
this way. So I would recommend even it
may sound really stupid and simple that
to try to do it this way and step one is
you just write a prompt that's your like
best guess of of of achieving this
activity. So if the activity is write
one good legal research query and then
you define in the prompt you know all
the instructions this is where like con
uh uh having some subject matter
expertise really helps. So if you're
like a really good researcher, you can
give it these instructions about how to
write a great legal research query. And
then you also write start just like 10
emails. What is a good legal research
query? And the idea is given the prompt
which is the context and in this case
the context is the user query
and your instructions. What is the
objectively correct answer or how would
you measure an objectively correct
answer? And start writing down these
emails.
Here's where tooling gets into play. I
when I develop at home, I use Prompt Fu.
It's free. It's open source. It uh is is
simple and pro and command line. There
is a host of tools though that are paid
and cloud-based and are awesome. I've
used Vellum before. I don't know if
they're here. Those guys are cool.
There's so many different tools. Just
pick one and make sure it can do this
task of you write a prompt, you give it
con you write instructions, you give it
context. Uh context in other
circumstances, by the way, might be the
full text of a document. You're asking
questions about that document. The
prompt might be instructions around
doing the next chess move. And the
context is the chess game up to this
point, right? So instructions plus
context. Uh whatever it may be for you,
make sure that given this the following
instructions in context, it actually
does the task well. And uh what my guess
is is that the first prompt you write,
it's going to pass six out of your 10
tests. And that's the moment most people
go, "Well, AI is stupid. I guess
I wait to GB6, I guess, right? It's over
for me. This this application is
doomed." And here's where the hard part
is. You just keep working until you pass
all 10 tests. even if it takes you a
week or two weeks. What I tell everybody
who works for me is that the definition
of a good prompt engineer is somebody
who can write pretty well and also like
concisely directly um understandably
write great instructions and also
somebody who's willing to not sleep for
two weeks straight until they get it
right. That's what it takes. Because
what you'll find is that you thought
your instructions were clear, but then
it gets it wrong every time on this dumb
question. Okay, let's read the
instructions again. Where is it unclear?
Where am I not being clear to this AI?
Where am I using the wrong model or
doing the wrong setting? I temperature
to two, which is somehow possible, or 10
is somehow possible with Gemini models.
I don't really understand that. It's
like crazy. It's like one is like kind
of crazy and 10 is like let's go nuts
here. But maybe it tries temperature
zero or 0.5 or whatever, right? Maybe I
you set thinking too much or too little
or whatever. You just keep on
experimenting mostly with the
instruction because these models are
very smart and they will follow your
instructions better and better and
better but with everything else as well
model settings etc until you get 10 out
of 10 and then you keep on iterating and
iterating iterating and then you go to
50 and then 100 and then a thousand per
prompt. Okay, this is what it takes
because by the time you get to a
thousand and another kind of test here
is not the thousand that you thought of
by yourself just in a dark room, but
what are the kinds of things your users
are likely to throw at you? Can you
anticipate pre-launch what are the kinds
of crazy your your users going to
pump into it? We were shocked by how
dumb the legal research queries people
put into coconsel. We were just totally
blown away. But that's the reality of
our users and many users uh who even
people who are highly educated like
lawyers. So be prepared to try to
anticipate as best as you can what
lawyers will lawyers and I said lawyers
actually users will put into your uh
into your application what kind of the
context will look like and maybe have a
small beta program where you tell your
customers it is going to be bad at
first. We're looking for that. We're
looking for you to tell us the times you
tried it and give us that that
information so that we can put it as
part of our tests. Right? That's how to
get to a thousand tests. Usually driven
by your customers.
All right. I kind of dumped on context
engineering as the meme because I think
it's context plus instructions equals
prompt. But again, we'll probably hear
some disagreements throughout the
presentations. Doesn't matter really.
It's just semantics. But I will say that
context really, really, really, really
matters. And a lot of people overlook
this. There are times where we try to go
back to this legal research example.
We're like, I can't believe the AI is
getting the answer wrong. It's so
stupid. But then we actually just sat
down and read and sometimes it's like 10
pages or 100 pages. Just read it. And we
realized, oh, given this information, I
would say the same thing the AI does. It
doesn't have the right information. This
is especially the case if, and I
recommend this, you tell the AI, don't
answer based on any of your previously
existing knowledge, just based on what
I'm giving you right here. If this thing
says the sky is purple, the sky is damn
purple. Right? That's a good instruction
to give. By the way, if you're worried
that the AI is going to hallucinate
based on the information put in, you
just be really, really, really clear. It
must be based on the context given.
Okay. Well, but what happens if your
retrieval sucks and the information that
comes in is is garbage? How could you
possibly expect a human, let alone an
AI, to answer the question accurately if
the retrieval sucks? So now you have to
you think you're working on prompt
engineering or context engineering. What
you're really working on is retrieval.
Go Chroma. Uh or you know or maybe you
uh have another problem. For us, believe
it or not, like OCR was a huge issue.
Legal documents are total messes. Like
absolute messes. And what we'd see time
and time and time again is that when we
read the OCR, it was gibberish. It was
total mess. No human in their right
minds could get the right answer. So
sometimes they able to get it right and
we were shocked because the words were
out of order. it still figured it out.
Okay, so now you have an OCR problem,
not a prompt engineering problem. So
that that like really opening up under
the hood and seeing seeing it like the
AI sees it. Read it verbatim, including
all the information put in the spacing.
Yeah, it sometimes matters. If it's hard
for you to read, it'll be hard for the
AI to read is the general rule. AI can
do some things you can't do, but if you
can make it readable and easy, then
you're in a really good place.
So that's what I was just saying. Look
at the look at the actual like actual
information in there. And again, I want
to double underscore this because it's
going to be the difference between you
making a prompt that works and a prompt
that doesn't work. If you're not willing
to stay up or you or your employees or
whoever are not willing to stay up for
two hour, two weeks straight, not
sleeping, just working on the prompt,
you're not going to make it. All right?
You just need to do that in order to get
to a place where the prompt's actually
working at at scale accurately in the
way you want it to. So that's that's our
secret to success. It's actually pretty
simple. Evals per prompt. Given this
information and instructions, it should
answer this. If it answering this, it is
red, not green. I have to keep on
working on the instructions or the
information that's coming in until this
is green. Let's move on to the next test
and the next test. The next test um by
the time you're passing like 999 out of
a thousand and that one is kind of
debatable. Now, you're ready to go uh
release to a wider audience in my
opinion. Right now, now you have some
degree of reliability. It's not
guaranteed and you should never tell
your customers it's going to be
perfect because it's not going to be
 perfect, but it'll be really
good, especially if you anticipated all
the different edge cases your customers
will throw at it.
A few other quick tricks.
First of all, the way that the AI works,
as you probably know, is it reads over
the entire prompt and also by all the
tokens it's generated so far for every
token has to generate. So for every
token you generate, it takes a while.
And this is less true now. the bottles
are getting faster and they all quantize
like crazy and so on. But when we
started GBD4 was slow and if you want to
do something like read like a million
documents over the course of a few hours
or even a few minutes. Okay, well good
luck if it's generating a lot of content
per uh per document. But there's a trick
here. Make it just have one token as its
response. That means it does that whole
process of reading the entire context
and outputting a token once as opposed
to twice or three times. Right? And
there are some really creative things
you can do here with stop words. One
thing we love to do is and this is more
true of completion models and chat
models and unfortunately the world's
move to chat models but we would like
give the whole prompt tell it the output
format is like first you just tell us
the number on a scale of 1 to 10 of
whatever we're trying to look for just
the number and those are all just one
tokens each 10's also a single token
right or a single word like true or
false or if there's a gradient there of
you know true false maybe whatever right
and then give your explanation dear AI
here's the craziest the AI will
give a slightly better answer because it
thinks it's about to give a whole
explanation as to defend its number. But
you use stop words or max tokens at one.
So the AI just outputs one one token and
then you just cut it right off. It's
like stop talking, right? You've got
your fast response. Uh and you also got
the AI to think a little bit harder
before it's given its answer. That's
like a trick. Um, similarly for eval
purposes, even if you're going to have
it output its whole explanation, you
want a big nice JSON blob that has all
the stuff in it, make it give its uh
numeric or objective answer first. That
makes eval so much easier. Evals are way
easier when you can say like matches
word x rather than having llm as a judge
for every single one of the eval judge
is sometimes the only you got. Um, break
things into small parts. is tempting to
try to get the AI to to in one prompt or
within one context to do like dozen
steps and sometimes it works and if you
can do it but it's just like people uh
when if you give them a simple task
they'll more likely to do it right more
often break it down to simple steps
finally something that we're seeing I
think finally the thing that we're
seeing is that reinforcement fine-tuning
is a lot better than older fine tunes a
lot of the people in this room are
probably turned off to fine-tuning
because you tried fine-tuning if you're
anything like us and the gains are
minimal at best and you go okay well why
am I getting thousands of different
examples just for it to kind of up
um in the same rate it's up
before in fact maybe even get dumber
which we saw sometimes reinforcement
finding on the other hand requires max
50 to 100 different examples of prompt
what good answer looks like and how to
uh objectively judge whether prompt whe
the answer is good which is the hardest
part of creating these reinforce and
fine-tuning like fine-tunes for for APIs
like OpenAI or if you're doing it
yourself. But it goes a really long way.
They go a really long way. And we're
starting to a place where we have a
different model for every single prompt.
And there are hundreds if not thousands
of prompts at this point throughout the
co-consil ecosystem for each little
micro step. Each micro step gets its own
reinforcement fine tune model. And
that's another way that might get your
eval to go from 9900 out of a thousand
to 999 of a thousand.
Finally, try different models for
different prompts. There's no rule that
says it has to be GPT all the way
through if you have seven different
steps. Just try different models. Um all
these these platforms now including
Prompt Fu which is free and on your on
your desktop environment lets you say
try it under different conditions
including different models. And the
other thing too is you might save a
buck. If you can go with GD5 mini as
opposed to GD5, you might save a lot of
bucks. Uh Gemini 2.5 flash, beautiful
model, cheap as If it works to
your level of satisfaction, use that.
Don't use 2.5 Pro. So try just
experiment with different models and it
might take you pretty far. Especially if
you have a potentially lower than 100%
accuracy rate, it's still acceptable for
your customers depending on the use
case. All right. Well, that's all I got.
Hopefully it was useful and we'll do
questions at the end, I think.
[Music]