Video ID: Tm5NbHUblkA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tm5NbHUblkA
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 847
============================================================

[Music]
Today I'm joined by David and Nan, the
co-founders of Juicebox, who recently
just announced their series A of $30
million led by Sequoia Capital. Thanks
for joining us, guys.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> Why don't we start by explaining what
Juicebox does?
>> So, Juicebox is an AI recruiting
platform. We help companies find,
engage, and evaluate talents faster and
more efficiently using LLMs.
>> Okay, cool. So, what did recruiters do
uh before Juicebox existed and kind of
what were the biggest pain points you're
solving for them?
>> A typical recruiter workflow um has a
few steps that starts with searching for
a candidate. Uh typically that is an
online profile search. We set filters
like the job title and we start
reviewing those profiles. Uh then
they'll evaluate those profiles by
clicking into them. It's probably the
most time inensive portion and finally
reach out either via email or via
LinkedIn. Juicebox covers that entire
workflow. And so we help recruiters do
that entire workflow either in an AI
assisted or in a fully AIEled way.
>> And can you share a little bit about
just who are some of your customers
today and um what sort of the scale
you're operating at?
>> Definitely. We work with over 2,000
customers and we work with talent teams
across some of the fastest growing
companies in tech including companies
like Perplexity, Ramp and Cursor. We
also work with a lot of large recruiting
agencies as well as some of the largest
enterprises in the world. I want to
start by just taking a bit of a step
back about your journey to get here
because it wasn't like a straight line
to success and product market fit
because you guys actually did YC a while
ago in 2022 and you've been through like
a bunch of pivots to get here. So I
think that's going to be really
interesting for people to hear about. So
why don't we actually start with the two
of you individually. Tell us a little
bit about kind of your personal
background like where did you grow up
and how did you two meet?
>> So I'm from Germany from Dusseldorf grew
up there. um came to the US for college,
went to Harvard, studied economics. Um
and then pretty quickly got interested
in tech. Um co happened at the same time
and so that's the time that Ishan and I
ended up meeting each other and I spent
some time working at Snap uh on their
growth team. Really cool experience.
Ended up going back to college and
starting to build together with Ishan.
Uh and so that was really our journey of
getting started. We first built a music
app um social audio app uh and that
ultimately gave us the conviction to
apply to YC as well.
>> I grew up in India in this town called
Kpur. uh went to high school there and I
was always interested in tech, always
enjoyed building stuff. The story of how
we met is actually really interesting
because in in my senior year of high
school, I came across this competition
online. This is during co by the way,
everything is virtual where the prize is
that you get to meet Steven Wolram who's
a popular computer scientist and I
wanted to meet him. So I ended up taking
part in that competition and David was
actually one of the organizers of the
competition. So I got to meet Steven
Wolfrram but the more interesting bit
was I got to meet David. Uh he was
working on a music app uh actually a
social media app at the time. I really
enjoyed building stuff. So I joined in
we started working on that. Then we as
David said we worked on the music app
and at some point we were like you know
we should start a business together.
That's when we applied to YC.
>> Well I I have to ask you have a very
distinctive name for the company. Where
where did the name Juicebox come from?
>> Yeah Juicebox goes back to our music app
days. And so when we were building the
music discovery app, it was a word play
on Jukebox. Um and then when it came to
came around to launching the recruiting
platform, it was like the night before
the launch, we're trying to decide what
name we would give it. And um we really
loved the name Juicebox even though it
wasn't connected to the business. So we
decided to go with something fun and uh
it stuck since then.
>> Do you think it's like helped you stand
out at all or is it neutral?
>> I think a lot of companies in the
recruiting tech or maybe even like B2B
SAS in general perhaps have some like
repetitive naming. uh and so it's
definitely different um and hopefully a
bit more memorable.
>> Can you give us like the quick um
summary of what was the idea you applied
to YC with?
>> The idea that we wrote our application
with and it even evolved a little bit
until we actually did the interview um
was a music discovery app. So it
connected to your Spotify uh and then it
gave you 15second snippets of songs that
we thought you might like. Uh it was
still I guess in some ways related to
discovery and finding new things but in
a much more fun consumerf facing way.
And then by the time we interviewed,
we're already thinking about, you know,
how could this be become a business?
What what could be monetizable here? And
so we pitched an idea around it being a
merch marketplace. Turned out that
wasn't a great idea either for for some
other reasons. Um, and also gave us the
openness to look at other ideas
afterwards.
>> Yeah, I I remember that from the
interview. I remember like thinking,
okay, these guys seem great, but they're
like they're still figuring it out,
which is totally fine. Then when YC
started, can you tell talk us a bit
about like um how did the idea change
again and just especially like how were
you coming up with ideas and and
figuring out things to work on and
testing them?
>> I think one of the best things YC did
for us is especially for young founders,
it kind of tells you that there's this
whole world of business software. If
you're a young founder, the natural
course is that you know I can solve a
consumer problem so I can build a
consumer application. But then when we
got into YC and we started seeing the
businesses YC has funded, we realized,
hey, there's a whole world of problems
we can be solving for businesses. So
that's when we started thinking about,
you know, what are ways we can like
build good business software and help
help companies do better. And we
realized that one one of the things both
David and I had in common is we we had
unconventional work experiences in the
past. So I freelanced a ton in high
school. David had also worked with a lot
of companies on independent projects. So
we thought the initial idea was what if
we build a better marketplace to connect
people. That's where we started off and
that got us in touch with talent teams
and got us into the recruiting space and
over time we realized that while the
marketplace thing has already been
solved what's a bigger pain point is the
actual tools that these teams are using
right now
>> the recruiting teams right. Okay. So
then um when did you kind of first get
the idea for like Juicebox itself like a
a tool for recruiting? How did that come
about? Um uh and how did you get that
off the ground? This was when LLM
started taking off really and we we we
started playing around with some of the
APIs. We started playing around with
chat GPT and we realized that LLMs are
able to draw inference from unstructured
data and that's a huge part of what
recruiters are doing on a day-to-day
basis because they're pretty much going
through profiles and trying to draw
inference out of it and really get
semantic meaning out of out of the
profiles they're looking at. And we
realize that LMS can do that very well.
So this is a space we can be building
in. And so this is so you were working
on sort of like the freelancer
marketplace then chat GBT launches or
you know towards the end of 2022 and is
that was it chat GBT launching that gave
you kind of like the oh like what if we
like took this and applied it to
recruiting?
>> Yeah, I think it it kind of fell like it
was like the puzzle pieces started
falling into place because we we had
identified the problem. um we already
building on the contractor marketplace
side which effectively meant we were
being recruiters uh plus we were
interacting with recruiters from other
companies and as Aan mentioned we saw
the pain points but then we didn't
really have conviction on how we could
solve those yet and so LLM really
changed the game for us because it meant
we could start solving for some of the
workflow that was being done by
recruiters rather than just the software
being used by recruiters.
>> What did the MVP look like? So when
you're talking about workflows, what
yeah what what could a recruiter do with
version one of Juicebox? Yeah, very
first version. I think we actually did a
an internal YC launch on this. It must
have been like December 2022, so a
couple months after the chat GP chatgpt
launch and there we took some of the
most common workflows or processes that
we got to know from recruiters and that
we experienced ourselves and turned
those into a small LLM powered
application. And so that was like
structuring interview questions, quickly
summarizing or assessing a profile and I
think there's like a couple other use
cases in it. It was pretty basic, but it
showed the initial promise of what a
tool could do in the space.
>> When you launched this idea, um, how did
it feel different to just like the other
ideas that you've been sort of pivoting
around and testing out on initially?
>> I think we had this sort of like instant
message market fit which we had not
gotten yet. So I won't call it product
market fit because the product was like
barely functional but we had this
message market fit that like people saw
the the message of what we were trying
to build and we instantly got so many
emails. We got a lot of messages and we
started getting in touch with people
where they were like oh recruiting is a
big pain point for me and this would
really help me I think compared to our
other ideas like people really related
with what we were trying to build. The
key difference just sounds like this
time you launched something and it just
feels like you've got like inbound
demand and people saying they really
want it whereas the other ideas maybe
just it didn't felt like you were not
getting that poor. How did you get those
first few customers and just what did
those first few months look like?
>> We were actually just discussing this
today as well of like the first the
first few customers were not super happy
with the product.
>> Oh, interesting. Tell us about that.
>> Yeah, it was it was still a journey from
there. So, we had that message market
fit that mentioned but we didn't yet
have product market fit. So, the product
wasn't actually working. It wasn't a
recurring use case. It was maybe
interesting to see in the demo and to
see the initial outputs from it, but it
wasn't yet good enough to be something
that becomes a regular part of the
workflow.
>> Is that because the underlying models
weren't good enough for it yet or what
wasn't working?
>> I think a bit of both. So both the
underlying models, this was like the GPD
3.5 era were not yet good enough.
Shortly thereafter GPD4 came out and it
started getting a bit better for that
use case. But then second, we had not
built enough of a product suite around
it. It was still very much like uh I
guess it was an LLM wrapper in the
purest sense of the word. Um and that
was kind of our V1. And it was good
feedback though because we knew exactly
what our customers wanted and they told
us what they wanted allowed us to go
back and and start building for that.
>> And what at this point just what
specifically were your customers trying
to do with this V1 and what weren't they
happy with?
>> They were trying to do many things but
the biggest one and the most recurring
one was finding the right talent. And so
a lot of the other workflow items were
important too, but everything kind of
came back to that search piece. Can we
discover someone that we're not
discovering elsewhere?
>> What's like a typical search query that
they were putting in?
>> Something like uh looking for software
engineers in the Bay Area who have
experience working with large language
models or who have experience working
with uh deep learning or machine
learning algorithms, things that require
you to really look at a profile and kind
of gauge whether or not that's true.
More like semantic queries. And what was
happening as you were trying to with
version one trying to process those
queries?
>> Yeah, we started showing so we we showed
matches. I think there was some people
who found value in that use case but the
depth of search that we were doing was
not quite yet where we wanted it to be
and so we were still quite filter
focused. Um we were using LLMs to parse
that into filters and then we started
working on some vector search behind the
scenes to help prioritize those search
results. And so it worked in some cases
but not consistently.
>> Okay. So then when when did it feel like
it started taking off and felt like you
had some product market fit and just
just what does that feel like?
>> For roughly like 4 months the revenue
was kind of like this like flatlined
basically and then we continued
iterating on the product behind the
scenes. We continued being close to
customers really listening to what they
really want. And we we would obsess over
every single search. I remember we we
set up the Slack integration. Any any
minute you like type a search it's going
to show up in our Slack. And then
anytime we see uh a search come in, we
would like instantly get into it and see
what went wrong, what can we do better,
is the ranking not good enough, are the
filters not good enough. So we really
obsessed over making our search good for
the next 4 to 5 months. And that's when
it really hit a point where people
started using it for real use cases. uh
the inflection point was when people
first of all started inviting their team
members and getting their team on board
and then they started integrating their
other tools in the in their like
recruiting stack and that really gave us
the confidence that we are building
something that can really be a part of
your workflow.
>> And so then coming back to the um the
round you just raised you actually took
a while to raise your series A because
the company was actually just like
growing making revenue and doing well.
So maybe just talk us through as
founders your mindset around that like I
think you could have raised around much
sooner if you'd wanted but like how how
did you think about doing that sooner
versus waiting
>> kind of the point of that mentioned of
where we got to that continued growth it
was around January 2024 and from there
on like the revenue curve was no longer
flat it started creeping upwards and um
every month we were growing 20 sometimes
30% uh and then that started compounding
and so by the time it was fall of last
year we crossed a million in ARR um it
was still the two of us or or founding
engineer Mch who had just joined and at
that point we raised a seed round and
that gave us the capital to kind of
continue doubling down. It was good for
the company that it took us a while to
to raise that financing or not that it
like took us a while. We only really
choose not to.
>> Exactly. We we rather chose not to and
the reason for that was that the biggest
issue was iterating on product and to be
honest you can do that very well with a
small amount of people and so it was the
both of us going into every search
testing it and changing it. There was no
coordination with other people. it was
just us making it better every single
day and I think at that time that was
what had the biggest outcome on the
product uh rather than building a whole
team around it.
>> I remember reading your update when you
crossed a million dollars ARR um and it
surprised me because you got there
without hiring anyone. First time I'd
seen that actually. So do you think
that's kind of the future for startups?
Like can they get to million dollar AR
with less people?
>> So I I think that's definitely possible
especially on the product side of things
on on the GTM roles. I think we we still
need a lot of people to have those
one-on-one relationships when making
sales, but on the product side, a few
smart people really working together and
really working hard and using AI tools
well enough really gets you pretty far
because you need more people who can
make the right decisions, but the tools
make it a lot easier to grow a lot more
quickly.
>> Even on the go to market side, I think
in the early days, like if you booked a
demo with Juicebox, you booked a demo
with me. And there was a fairly long
time where I was doing like 60 70 demos
a week. And so it was a pretty high
volume of demos. Um, and some of them
became repetitive, but it was also nice
because it almost became a second nature
of this is what the customer is going to
ask for next and here's how we're going
to solve that in the product. And in a
way it was like the truest form of
product development is like we got all
this customer feedback and then it was
just the two of us going and
implementing it.
>> How did you know it was time to um hire
your first person?
>> We started onboarding some larger
customers. um there was more customer
specific demands that we wanted to serve
and so particularly we started with
working with some of the large AI labs
um which of course have a very intense
hiring use case and um I think that was
around the time where we realized like
maybe it needs to be more than the two
of us.
>> It would be so funny when we have
conversations and people like oh how big
is your team and we're like uh what
team? Like we try to like avoid the
question a little bit.
>> Change the topic here a little bit. Um
let's just talk about the market that
you're building in. um to market I know
well I ran a recruiting startup for 4
years and historically recruiting has
not been a great space to build startups
in. I think investors in particular
became a bit jaded after funding lots of
them and and not seeing many really grow
and scale. Did you think about that when
you were starting this company at all?
Like were you concerned about starting
in the recruiting space? Were you
excited to start in the recruiting space
or or did it not matter?
>> Not really. I would say we we didn't
think about like investor sentiment too
much. we really cared about like is this
a real problem? Do we have a real
solution that we can build for it and we
saw one so we just went for it
>> and I also think it was like uh in a way
the fact that we didn't know all of the
context behind us helped it because I
don't know if we would have made that
decision otherwise and then it was also
fortunate timing with LLM really
changing what's possible like you can
actually do the work that a human
otherwise does um through software now
which is just kind of really unique in
this point in time.
>> Yeah. So let's talk about that more cuz
I I I couldn't agree more. I think
recruiting is a space where AI is going
to completely explode the size of the
market. It's a very exciting time to
build. Maybe tell us what are some of
the the specific features you built at
Juicebox um that use AI which which just
wouldn't have been possible to build 2
or 3 years ago.
>> There there's probably two things that
come to mind. One is our autopilot,
which is a feature within Juicebox that
pretty much looks at your entire talent
pool one by one, goes through every
single profile and does really a very
like deep analysis of whether or not
this person is a good fit for the role
you're hiring for. That would have very
much not been possible without something
like LMS. And the other piece I would
highlight is our agents that we launched
a few months back. Uh agents are
basically autonomous workers within
Juicebox that are able to do a lot of
what the top offunnel sourcing looks
like. So you kind of have this
calibration process where you iterate
with an agent, the agent shows you
profiles, you give feedback on those
profiles and then once the agent is
calibrated enough it can go out there
and start reaching out to people for
you. And those are really two of the
main features within Juicebox.
>> Yeah, I think it's it's a classic
example of where because the AI can do
the work, the amount of money you can
make per customer is going to go way way
up. It's not just a tool to enable
recruiters, you can do the actual
recruiting. knock on effect of that is
the role of recruiters is definitely
going to be impacted by what you're
working on. Um so maybe tell us a bit
about how do you see the role of
recruiters evolving or co-evolving
alongside Juicebox and then what's your
advice to founders who are building
companies and thinking about hiring
recruiters and their talent function and
and how should they adapt to this new
world? Yeah, I think there's some
parallels between what's happening in
the recruiting space and in the sales
space where in the sales space there's
been a large tech stack for kind of
automating different things and uh
making different flows or intent signals
more advanced. Um in recruiting that's
still a lot newer and we see that for a
lot of our customers were the first
solution that they find in that in that
space. What we've then seen some of our
most sophisticated customers do is
actually have people on their teams who
are focused on deploying agents into
their workflow. And so they might manage
multiple agents at once that all focus
on different roles. And so suddenly you
have the capabilities of a single
recruiter uh are multiplied and they can
work on a lot more roles. They can find
a lot more qualified candidates and they
can have a lot more output than they
would otherwise. It also enables small
recruiting teams. So be that a founder
or a hiring manager who want to do some
of their own recruiting to do that too.
And so I think that's something that
we'll hopefully see grow a lot is people
who are not traditional recruiters
acting as a recruiter too.
>> Yeah. But that was definitely when I was
running um uh Triple Bite, the general
issue in the industry was the more
recruiters you hired, the less effective
they became because the overall
conversion rate on LinkedIn messages,
response rate, reply rates were going
down. And so it seems like this could
potentially be a solution to that.
>> There's kind of two parts to that. One,
you can control your messaging. You can
go direct and uh you can get in touch
with those candidates directly rather
than going through another platform. Um
and then second that work that is still
very time inensive of like finding
people and messaging them um essentially
gets reduced by by orders of magnitude.
>> Okay. So one thing everyone's talking
about right now is the AI talent wars
and just how competitive it's gotten
like we have Mark Zuckerberg offering
hundreds of millions of dollars to top
researchers and engineers. What's your
advice to founders um who want to hire
the best engineers and be able to
compete with Meta for them? I think
there's two things that founders can do
um and every founder can do them. The
first one is on actually being involved
in that recruiting process. It's often
lost in the Zuckerberg stories, but to
me, one of the most interesting pieces
that he's actually texting and calling
these researchers himself um and not the
huge organization that he's built. And
every founder can and should be doing
the same thing regardless of of what
stage they're at. And uh the second part
is the the meaning behind that work. And
so what is your company actually trying
to achieve and how why is that something
that an engineer should care about or or
why should they contribute their time
towards that work? That answer will be
unique for every company and is also
their way to stand out. The best
founders that we see recruiting on
Juicebox treat their recruiting very
similar to their sales process. And so
they have automated follow-ups. They
quickly respond to candidates be it
positive or negative. They schedule the
next step and they can get a candidate
from first email to like offer made
within a week. And that's a fast process
that requires a lot of dedication. We
have to remind ourselves of this often
that like recruiting is our number one
priority. And um I think it's like an
active choice that a founder has to
make.
>> Yeah. And I think it makes a big
difference to candidates. It's like the
whole cell of a startup is we move
really fast. And so if you can show them
that during the hiring process and they
contrast it with four weeks to get
through like the big tech process, um
you can really make a difference on
closing.
>> Yeah. And it's also the first impression
they'll have of your company. So uh I
think it really matters. you know,
actually something else that's a hot
topic um actually um even internally at
YC is just um for hiring engineers in
particular, how should you think about
letting them use AI tools or not use AI
tools? Um I just heard that Meta now
letting engineers interviewing use AI
tools. Do you have on the front lines
again? Any thoughts on that where the
industry is going and maybe how do you
at Juicebox think about that for your
own engineering hiring?
>> Our interview is split up into two
parts. uh for for one half of it you can
use AI tools because that part really
tries to assess whether you can build
something from scratch that that's
really a culture we have internally is
we try to hire engineers who can like
build things from scratch themselves
without like existing frameworks and a
lot of like existing infrastructure can
you like really build something and
think from a product perspective so for
that we pretty much allow AI tools
there's also part of our interviews
where we don't allow AI tools which is
more logic and reasoning based and the
reason for that I guess LLMs are like
surprisingly good at that. Like LM put
oneshot easily like questions that are
hard to reason through for for people
often. But those kind of questions while
they might not be directly applicable to
like engineering roles at early stage
companies. I think they are still a good
signal for how people generally approach
problems like how do you approach a hard
reasoning problem? How do you break it
down? How do you think about sub
problems? Those kind of things are
really important and I think continue to
be important in the recruiting process.
Tell us a little bit about the juicebox
or product roadmap. You have sort of
multiple products. It's a a product
suite of recruiting tools and how did
you decide to build the products that
you have at the moment in that specific
order and what might be coming next?
>> The thing we do most commonly internally
is we follow the recruiter. We look at
what they are spending the most amount
of time on and where can we save that
time for them. So the first thing we
built was our query builder. That's like
the initial search process of setting
the right filters. We noticed that this
takes a lot of time for recruiters. How
can we solve that? We built out like the
query building part of it. Then we saw
that people are really spending time
going through every profile
individually. So we built our autopilot
which kind of does that for you. And
that's also the reasoning why we built
the agent workflow because we saw that
the way recruiters operate is they look
at profiles one by one and they kind of
like share feedback on it and align
internally of what a good profile looks
like and that is similar to the way our
agent also operates. So our core
philosophy is looking at what is being
done manually. Where can we save people
the most amount of time and building
that out in terms of our road map that
kind of translates into our agent doing
more and more things. So we want to get
to a point where you can really go from
a job description to a first call book
with a qualified candidate where they
can talk to the hiring manager directly
with as little human intervention as
possible and that's what we're trying to
build towards. Tell us where just if we
zoom out from the product road map just
the vision for juicebox. How do you see
it growing into like a big huge company
and what has to go right for you to make
that a reality?
>> A recruiting team or company when they
think about solving for more headcount
growth. Right now the default answer is
growing their recruiting team or
augmenting their recruiting team with a
recruiting agency or additional
headcount through an agency. Our goal is
for that answer to be augmenting their
recruiting team through Juicebox where
Juicebox becomes their main way of of
scaling the recruiting function. Um we
still think human recruiters are going
to be a big part of that. Um but we also
think that the Juicebox agents will be
able to do a lot of the work currently
being done manually.
>> Yeah, I think it's a prime example of
where recruiting roles have like some
work that people really like like the
meeting people and convincing them to
join and getting them excited and then
the work that they really hate, right?
like the trolling through like hundreds
of profiles online and sending lots of
cold emails. And so it's a classic
example where you free people up to do
the human side that they enjoy and just
like strip away all the automated work
with AI.
>> Exactly. And I think the side effect of
that too is that we can actually help
recruiters level up in the things that
they do really well because we're taking
away some of the work that they don't
want to focus their time on. uh and so
the time then spent on the candidates
candidate facing side increases in
quality and uh there's deeper candidate
relationships there's longerterm
candidate relationships that just
weren't possible previously.
>> Okay. So maybe just to kind of close out
here like you guys hit product market
fit fantastic round um learn a lot along
the way. What's some of your um one bit
of closing advice for anyone who's
aspiring to be a founder and get to the
stage where you guys are?
>> I think find a good co-founder. That's
extremely important. And uh second be
okay with the world of pain. Uh just
stay alive. If a lot of companies we're
now seeing be very successful in AI
including us started a long time ago
went through this phase where things
were not working but they stuck with it.
They kept iterating and they stayed
alive. So I think that's the most
important part. Would you agree?
>> I I agree with what Ashan said on the
co-founder side. right answer.
>> And uh I think we also like we fight a
good amount in the sense that like we
express our opinions but it all goes on
this like deep basis of trust. Um and I
think that's been really valuable and
what I've appreciated most about
building the company together. And then
I think the the kind of my added advice
would be you can probably go one step
further than you think you can before
hiring. And so seeing how far you can
push it can be a really effective thing.
And it should feel like a little bit
like everything is breaking when you
bring on that first person. And that's a
good way to test for it.
>> Cool. All right. Well, that's all we
have time for today, guys. Thanks so
much for sharing the story. Um, I'm
really excited for the round.
Congratulations again. Um, and excited
to see the future of Juicebox.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
[Music]