Video ID: u2z44EkIEHE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2z44EkIEHE
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 857
============================================================

[music]
>> Today, I'm excited to welcome Charlie
and Jackson, co-founders of Conductor,
fresh off of a $22 million series A
co-led by Spark and Matrix. Guys, thanks
so much for joining. Thanks for having
us.
>> Thank you, Aaron.
>> Yeah, tell us a little bit more. What is
Conductor? So, Conductor is a Mac app
that lets you run a bunch of coding
agents all at the same time. So, instead
of being in your IDE editing files or in
your terminal running Claude code or
Codex, Conductor consolidates all your
coding agents and in one click, you can
create an isolated copy of your code
base, tell Claude or Codex to go work
for you, and then you can review and
merge its work. Very cool. And you guys
were the first to build kind of this new
way of of shipping code with multiple
agents at the same time within one
interface. And it seems like it's really
working. Like, what's the state of the
business right now? Tell tell us a
little more about how how it's been
growing. Yeah. So, we're we're a small
scrappy team, but we are growing really
fast. So, we've grown about 10 times
since January and
now we have everyone from like scrappy
indie hackers to
engineers at big public companies using
us every day.
But there's a lot to build and
a lot to figure out and so we're excited
to grow the team. Yeah, very cool. And
you have some new announcements of
things that you're launching today. Tell
us more about that.
>> So, we're very excited to launch
Conductor Cloud today.
Up until today, Conductor all runs
locally on your Mac. So, if you shut
your laptop, Claude code or Codex or
whatever agent you're using will stop
working. But as of today, you can create
a workspace that is backed by a cloud
environment. So, you can shut your
laptop and the agent will keep working
for you. It seems like a lot of people
that are using Conductor are maxing out
how many uh, different instances, how
many different work trees they can be
running at a at a single time? Is this
the big unlock that's going to let
people get past the bottlenecks that
they've been hitting so far? For me, I
think like I can only really manage in
my head like three to five agents at
once. And I think this is part like
partly an interface problem and one
thing we're really excited to solve
next. Um, I think we we we've proven
that you can run more than one coding
agent at a time and it will still be
productive. But I think to get to like
the next level where you run like more
than three to five like we'll need it's
an interface challenge and like I think
we'll need to like go up a higher level
abstraction to to make that work. Very
cool. Um, When when we started conductor
like we were try trying to do this
manually ourselves and just running into
a lot of friction that made it hard to
get past one or two agents. And that's
like why we built the app in the first
place. I think even before that we were
trying to build stuff like conductor and
um, like the our very first attempts it
was just like too much too early to be
able to move away from your IDE.
So. Yeah. Yeah, the agents had to like
reach reach a like sweet spot. There's
kind of a tipping point where you didn't
have to pay attention to everything they
were doing. Um, but you had to pay
attention to enough of it where that
made orchestration and like running
multiple at once possible. Um, but yeah,
in our in our like early experiments
with this we were like we had like five
clones of our repo and like we were
running a cloud in each one and then
then we discovered work trees and we're
like, oh, we should probably be using
work trees and like step by step we like
started building the primitives like for
conductor like to solve a problem for
ourselves. Yeah, that's very cool. And
um, maybe let's go back to the beginning
and and kind of tell the story of how
you guys got there. How did you guys
first meet? Yeah, we met in college. I
was a freshman and Charlie was
a fifth year. Yeah. Yeah. Which at the
time was like is like the biggest age
gap possible. Like [laughter] if you had
told me then that we'd be working
together, I'd be like Jackson's a child.
Like how like
that would be just crazy to me. Yeah.
Yeah, Charlie was he he taught me how to
lift.
Um he's a great teacher, great coach.
>> Thank you. Finally finally you have
have have admitted it.
All right. I'll I'll never say it again.
>> [laughter]
>> Um
yeah, you you were trying to convince me
to take a CS class with you and I being
a stubborn freshman, I refused.
Um but
>> yeah, we we we connected after college
basically um and we're working on a
bunch of
project crazy projects together. Um
Charlie moved out to San Francisco and
um I was working at Netflix on the
machine learning infrastructure team.
Charlie was at Replicate doing growth
and like engineering. And we were just
working on a bunch of projects together
and
um
uh
like wanted to I guess
try our hand at a startup and we didn't
really know what we were going to do at
all, but we we got it we had an
interview with with you Aaron and we
uh decided to do it. Yeah. Yeah, and
talk about um deciding to to work
together and start something. So you
were at Netflix and you were at
Replicate. Did you know that you wanted
to do a startup? Did you know that you
wanted to do something with each other?
What what was that first kind of
conversation of you know, we should
leave these jobs and actually start a
startup together?
I think we were having a lot of fun
building stuff together. Um I didn't
even have in my head like an idea of
what a startup was. I mean I guess I had
some idea, but it was not at all
connected to what startups really are.
So I don't I I didn't have like a a
dream to do a startup, but I I really
liked working with Charlie and he
um knew a lot more about startups than
me and he this was something he was
interested in and I was
um
uh looking for a change. I was like
working from home in my bedroom and
going crazy and um yeah, I wanted
something to sink all of my time into. I
remember like reading Hacker News at my
first job out of college and reading
that you weren't meant to have a boss.
And and being like yeah, I wasn't meant
to have a boss. And so I think like the
idea of a startup like working on a
startup has been like in my brain for a
while. It felt very natural to work with
Jackson because we like he said like we
were having so much fun building
projects together and the idea of just
like doing that all the time felt
amazing. Um we had played ultimate
frisbee together in college. Believe it
or not, it was a very very serious team
and we put a ton of hours into it and um
we're really good team. A big part of me
and I think it's like a big part of our
company now is
trying to replicate that feeling of
being on like an elite sports team
together and like putting your all into
it and working against big challengers.
Like in college it was UNC. Now it now
it's like
it's it's a bunch of other companies but
um working really hard together on
something was like was really appealing.
When you guys decided that you wanted to
start a company together, did did you
have an idea? Did you know what you
wanted to work on? When we applied to
IC, our idea was AI that books
reservations for you.
>> Yeah. And that did not last long.
Well, I remember that. Your application
talked about you could reserve tennis
courts and Yeah. Yeah. And I think in
hindsight there were some cool ideas.
Like it was a use we were playing around
using Sonnet 35 to like control your
browser for you. But it was very much a
solution in search of a problem. We're
like okay, it's cool that Claude can
like click around in our browser. Like
what do we what do we do with it?
>> So I remember interviewing you guys with
that idea. Um
how married were you to that idea at the
time? I remember like trying to decide
how much conviction do we act like we
have in this idea? And we I did I think
we did a pretty good job of like
thinking it through a lot and like
thinking through the like the holes and
like yeah, like the how how it could get
really big. It was a bigger challenge
than something we'd worked on, but it
wasn't really like
I didn't feel like in my bones like this
was the thing to work on. Yeah. Yeah.
And as we learned many times in YC,
there's not that much you can learn by
just thinking through an idea. Once it
you go actually try and do it, you find
out all your thoughts were wrong or at
least we did.
>> Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and even if someone
Yeah, and even if someone tells you like
I really want this thing
you can put it in front of them the next
day and they're like, oh, like my friend
is going to love this. Like like it
doesn't necessarily translate to like
them actually wanting something.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I remember that was my
impression interviewing you guys for YC
was you guys seemed like incredible
engineers that probably had a much
better idea in you than the one that you
had applied with. And so maybe talk a
little bit about
what the the YC batch experience was
like for you and and what your main
focus was during during that 3 months.
Yeah.
I think probably the first month and a
half we were casting around for an idea
and
we
we tried all sorts of stuff. We were
asking our our friends and like building
random prototypes and showing them to
people who invariably hated them and
like
yeah, building stuff we knew nothing
about.
>> I feel like every office hours it would
be like, okay, we're trying this new
thing.
>> Yeah.
That's what I remember, too. I feel like
there would be times where we'd meet,
you know, every 3 days sometimes and
you'd be like, all right, when you come
back in 3 days, we're going to be here
and then you come back and you'd be
like, we have a new idea.
>> Yeah, yeah. Yeah. What did you think
when you interviewed us it would take us
so long to to come up with something?
Well, it wasn't the coming up with
something that was was the thing for you
guys. It was the finding the thing that
was actually going to stick. You guys
came up with a lot of idea a lot of them
were were really interesting, too.
Um and I think the other thing that
really stood out to me was you guys were
just like the fastest builders. You
built stuff so fast that you shipped
things every 3 days, sometimes totally
new ideas, way faster than a lot of
other companies would even ship an MVP
for you know, their whole thing during
the batch. And so, that was really
impressive to see. So, I credit for that
goes to Charlie. I think he has just a
an incredible drive to like get stuff
out the door as fast as possible and
I've I've hopefully some of that has
rubbed off on me. Yeah, I think I I
think we have a a nice dynamic where
there's like two archetypes of
engineers. I I think of myself as a
hacker where I can make something really
like I I like moving really fast and I
can make something that's sort of like
duct tape together and like leaves a
trail of dust behind it. Uh and then
Jackson I is I I think of as like a
gardener where he will kind of like pick
up the broken pieces behind me and then
like build it into something um
like some something robust. And like
that same exact thing happened with like
with with Conductor, actually. Like
where it was like, "Okay, I'm going to
build this MVP in like 2 days." And then
like show it to Jackson and Jackson's
like, "Okay, there's there's there may
be something here." And then
I couldn't we couldn't build the system
like without without that back and
forth.
I remember seeing the first version of
Conductor and saying like,
"First, Charlie, this is not at all what
I wanted. Like you have to change all
this stuff. And second, like this is
really impressive. I can't believe it
works this well. Like we should we got
to be working on this." Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, that's Talk about the journey to
get there. Like you went through a lot
of different ideas through the batch and
even after the batch. Um
what was that journey like from your
perspective to be able to get to the
thing that ultimately stuck?
I I very distinctly remember coming an
office hours like halfway through the
batch and we were we were pretty down.
Like I I I was really into the B2C ideas
and Jackson like B2B ideas and we had
tried like 10 different things at that
point and I remember you saying I
remember two things. One was um you said
um I think dev tools would be a good fit
for you guys. And then kind of like a
light bulb went off in our heads when
you said that. And the the second thing
you said that we still like have to this
day actually is you said uh put up a
poster on your wall of your guys' faces
and then just say across it at the top
make something these guys want and just
build something that you guys want. Um
and so we literally did that. Um
And then I think from there it actually
like that narrowed the scope a lot.
We're like okay dev tools. Um and we at
the time and it's funny this is still a
common thread. We felt like that AI
coding tools weren't going far enough.
Um and so that summer Sonnet 3.5 had
come out recently. Um we felt like there
was like a big overhang in like what was
possible and then what people realized
was possible. Um
uh and so and we also became obsessed
with this uh
coding tool called Aider which was a
like sort of
sort of like the grandfather to Claude
code and we actually tried to build a
version of conductor like that summer
where um
we were like instead of editing the
files by hand in an IDE or even using
like a tab model like you instead the
human should be telling the AI the AI
what to do and it would go off and do a
bunch of work and surface it to you. Um
and so we tried to make a user interface
that was like the thing after the IDE.
Um and the problem is it didn't quite
work. Uh the models weren't really good
enough. Like Sonnet 3.5
he did a bit too much hand-holding and
you would need to open your IDE too much
anyway. Um tool calling was like barely
a thing back then. We lost a bit of
conviction in in ourselves and like in
that idea because like it just the
models weren't quite ready and like we
weren't quite like ready to to build
that. We were like
let's take a like we have a bunch of
ideas around like how the UX of this
thing should work. But like let's let's
just apply that to chat because we know
that we can make a better chat app than
anything that exists and we had an
office hours review where you were like
you can't like
you can't pivot until you get 10 people
to try something. And so we're like
okay, we're just going to put something
out and we're going to put out a basic
version of a chat app and it's going to
let you talk to multiple models at once
cuz that's again that's like solving
like a problem for ourselves that we
wanted.
So we released Chorus in January. So
like a few months after the batch
actually.
Um and then it was in the process of
building Chorus and building the dev
tools that would let us build Chorus
faster that we stumbled upon conductor.
Mhm. How long did it take you? Sounded
like you built a prototype really fast.
Jackson saw Jackson was like this is not
how I would want to use it. So you were
kind of building for yourselves first.
How long until you got to the thing that
you actually started getting other users
to to start testing out and giving you
feedback on?
It was probably like 3 weeks from when
we wrote the first line of code and
there were couple weeks before that when
we were using Cloud Code a lot and like
developing some manual processes around
it and thinking
like
we need a tool for this and like there's
a huge opportunity to build something
around this. Yeah. We were like someone
else is going to build this like we need
this tool and then we're like wait like
we can build it ourselves. And yeah I
think it was like 2 to 3 weeks from like
first line of code to releasing it. The
first week was Charlie prototyped it all
himself and then that worked shockingly
well and we're we decided to spend we I
think we thought we could ship it in
another week and it probably took us two
and a half more weeks
>> [laughter]
>> to polish it up. And what convinced you
I mean you would you'd been through that
process a bunch of times with with other
ideas and other apps.
What was like the first thing that you
saw that actually convinced you that
like I think we're on to something here
and I think this is going to stick. I
think for me it was the first time
giving the agent a task then
pressing command and and giving another
agent a task and then I seeing a little
like unread dot come up in the first
agent and then I like click back into it
and it like had finished
and I was like like the idea of running
multiple agents like even running like
one cloud code was pretty new at the
time and so the fact that
we could run multiple and it would
actually be productive was pretty
magical.
Um I mean another litmus test for me
is
uh
cuz I get really excited about lots of
like shiny new things. Another litmus
test was for me was does Jackson find it
useful? And it cuz most things I show
him he's like I don't what am I supposed
to do like I don't there's no I don't
know what to do with this. But this was
one of the few times where he's like
wait like
this was actually kind of helpful for
me. Um so that was like another like
another bar to cross. Yeah. Yeah. I
think there was also a phase when we in
the early weeks developing conductor
when we were
it was there are certain problems that
are like really well shaped for
conductor where you have a bunch of like
mostly independent features or bug fixes
you want to do and I think there was a
one week maybe when we were like really
in that phase and we were just ripping
through like so much code with
conductor.
>> true. Yeah. It was exhilarating I think.
>> being able to build conductor with
conductor was another like magic moment
for us cuz I I was just like not leaving
the app and I was just like I felt like
yeah I was like conducting on like on a
ton of caffeine and and it was actually
working. Yeah.
>> Um so yeah, that was another like signal
for us. I mean, you guys were the first
to pioneer a lot of this running
um multiple agents at the same time. Um
and so that obviously, you know,
resonated with you immediately. It
resonated with a lot of other people,
but you also have this other special
ability, this knack to of uh you know,
putting out videos that go viral. Um
talk a little bit about where that came
from and and maybe any like tips or
tricks or secrets that you can share
with anybody else that's watching this
on on how you think about that.
>> Yeah. One of my claims to fame is a demo
I made where the day GPT-4
Vision came out, um I wrote a hacky
Python script that uh would record uh my
webcam and then watch me in real time
and then use a voice clone of David
Attenborough to like narrate what I was
doing as if I was in Planet Earth. And
um
uh I I just I tweeted that out on a whim
and it went totally viral and even uh
Sir David Attenborough saw it. Um
fortunately unfortunately he didn't love
it, which it was sad for me because I
I'm a huge fan of his. Um
but um I think part of uh part of how I
learned to um
to to get attention on Twitter and to
like shape posts in a way that could go
viral was my role at Replicate was
basically this. Um
I joined as an engineer, but like our
main problem was growth for a while and
so how do we get people to use our API?
Well, we have to like let the first have
to know about it and so like building
demo apps and like make like
creating like uh videos that like showed
you what was possible was like a big
part of my job. I think one thing that
that's really important to me is like
being authentic and like being direct
and not using like corporate speak or
not trying to like
act like you're bigger than you are or I
don't know, like saying it how it is,
like you're talking to a friend, and
I think that's one thing that's worked
well for me is just like
Like the David Attenborough video was
just like a raw screen recording. I like
Like I just like showed my screen and
didn't make many cuts, and like it's
just some Python on a screen and like
showing you how cool that could be. And
I
And then keeping the language really
direct and straightforward, I think
is is important. But then I also think
like it's like you have to like you have
to just have a ton of reps and like put
out a bunch of stuff and see what
resonates with people and like start to
learn like the shape of a post. Um
Uh I don't know. I don't know if I'm
doing a good job explaining this. It's
It's
>> Some of the advice that I thought that
you had that I thought was really
interesting was like
observe what you like, like what you
heart, and what you like seeing when you
scroll, and like observe the the
emotions and the reasons for why that
is, and like try and replicate that.
>> That's Yeah, that's one nice way of
summing up. It's like, yeah, make
something that you want to click like
on. Um
Similar to the YC advice. It's like,
make something that you want to consume
and and like, yeah. Yeah, that's good
advice. You guys I know you do a lot of
bike tours around the city to meet with
your users and sit down and watch them
use Conductor.
And it's it's pretty cool cuz you guys
have a front row seat to some of the
best engineers in the world that are
literally building on the frontier,
doing things that have never been
possible before. And I'm curious what
you've learned in the course of watching
some of those top engineers work. Like
what sets them apart?
>> Yeah. So I I think a couple of things. I
think one thing that I've noticed a lot
is the best engineers are putting a lot
of thought into their their skills
files.
And that's something we try and do as
well is like take knowledge that like
like take React best practices that
we've learned like from either talking
to people like experienced react
engineers or like things that are
specific to our code base and putting
those into markdown files and then the
agents can continually read from.
Um
I think one thing also that's maybe
somewhat surprising is how simple and
how vanilla most of the best
uh the best uh engineers
uh setups are. Like I think you can go I
think you can easily mid wet meme here
and like put a ton of thought into your
configurations and your sort of like
reminds me of like people who like have
amazing vim setups and like vim key
bindings that can do stuff like I don't
know. They can like
I don't know. They can do all kinds of
crazy stuff on vim, but like
not necessarily get work done. Um so I
think people have surprisingly simple uh
setups. Um but I do think putting a lot
of thought into your uh skills has been
like a a recurring thing. And I also
think um
uh something we are working on something
I've seen is having a what we call like
slop free zones where it's like you can
let the AI run wild in certain parts of
your code base and then other parts of
your code code base are like
much more thoughtfully considered and
like the human is the architect not the
AI.
Um
But I I think we're still figuring it
out. Like yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean everything has been
changing so quickly over the last few
months even.
Um and and we're even finding you know
in the current YC batch the advice that
we give is different in a lot of ways
than it was even just a few months ago
which makes it a really exciting time.
>> I can well wait. Um I I mean you can
build so much more so much faster. You
know before it'd be like to take on a
huge you know company that has a lot of
surface area in the product it'd be like
well what's your tiny entry point that
you're going to start with and now it's
like you could build the whole thing
>> Yeah. really quickly and just go take it
on you know. So like that feels like it
has changed a lot. And so um I'm I'm
curious what do you guys think is next
for coding and and what does engineering
look like over the next few years even?
Yeah.
Years is hard to say.
>> Yeah, right? Who even knows at that
point, yeah.
I do think one thing we feel confident
about is that the models are going to
get they're going to get 10 100 times
smarter. They're going to be able to run
for longer without you needing to
intervene.
I think they're going to start feeling
more and more like a human co-worker
would.
Although it's like
they still will have an alien brain
that's very different than ours. Um I
think that's one reason we're really
excited about cloud is that
the agents are going to be able to run
for much longer and
I think I do think that like you will we
will need interfaces that make you feel
like the CEO of
even a mega corp of where you have like
thousands of these AI employees that are
working for you and most of the time
you're like sitting at your desk like
the CEO would and like head of
engineering's giving you a report on
what they worked on. Head of marketing
is giving you an update. And you're
seeing high-level but then once in a
while you'll need to like drill down in
the details and that's sort of like what
like a PR review feels like now where
you're like zooming in
and like asking what like the specific
worker had done for has done for you.
Um I think that goes back to your
question about like what what are the
best people doing? It's like they're
able to understand the everything that's
happening and like go look at what the
agent is doing on every level and
optimize you know optimize away the
bottlenecks the agent is running into
and then also like think proactively
instead of just reacting to whatever the
agent is coming back with like thinking
ahead of you know what are the design
questions I'm going to need to
answer to to write this or like what
like which which pieces of this do I
care about? Like, which constraints do I
need to give to the agent, you know?
>> Yeah. Yeah, in some ways the yeah, like
the the best people building with AI are
like also the best people building with
other humans. Like, the skills are
actually like pretty transferable. Um,
and the people who were the best
engineers in the pre-AI world are likely
the best engineers in the AI world as
well. Um,
so yeah, there's a lot that transfers.
Uh, what's next for Conductor after the
the most recent launch here?
Right now, Conductor runs on your
laptop, but the vision is that Conductor
can run, um,
wherever you are, and it's like the
it manages all of the AIs that run as
part of your organization. And like, you
can hook into that from your phone or
your laptop, um, or your your existing
cloud infra. Yeah. I'm also very excited
for the like the next level of
abstraction. Like, Conductor to me, like
right now, is in some ways very July
2025. Like, that's when that's when we
created it, and like that's that's what
that's that's the set of the models when
Conductor's introduced, but I think I'm
a very excited to go up another level of
of abstraction, and uh, uh, let you
control the models from um, in different
way than you can. And I think there's
like a lot of interface product, uh,
experiments to be done there that I'm
really excited about. Very cool. What do
you think that's going to unlock for for
your users or for engineers or anybody
who's trying to build? I I think a
couple of things. I think the first is
like,
I am bottlenecked right now on my like
working memory as a human, which is like
three to five agents max. Um,
and I think we can remove that
bottleneck. Um, I'm also bottlenecked on
reviews, um, and
uh, like we all are bottlenecked on
reviews. Like, we have to pay very close
attention to like each line that Claude
is adding. We we maybe differ from some
other people on this, but like we are
like try to be quite like considerate
about the lines of code added. Um
Um and that's a that's a bottleneck. Um
and so I think there's like a ton of uh
experiments we can do with reviews. Um
we're still stuck in the 2010 GitHub PR
review era and I think like there's uh
there's cool stuff we can do there. So
Yeah. Yeah. Lots of exciting stuff on in
the near future. Yeah. I mean, you guys
have
>> [snorts]
>> um changed the way uh engineer engineers
build and the way engineering happens
to this point and I'm excited to see
what you have up your sleeve uh going
forward, too. Um you guys are hiring,
too. Talk about like what are the
qualities of the the best perfect people
to join the Conductor team? Yeah.
So right now everyone on the team has
either played ultimate frisbee or is
French. Okay. Um so that's uh that that
probably helps. Um
but I think um
I think people who are very scrappy and
either like have worked at a startup or
started their own startup, I think are
are great fits. People who
want to move really fast and also like
want to be at the frontier. Um and
importantly like people who want to
build uh tools for themselves and tools
for the best engineers. That's what
motivates us and it's it's it's
especially fun to be able to work on the
tool that um
to use the tool to build the tool and to
like constantly be
working at a bunch of different levels
working on shipping a feature and also
working on like what what is the process
that's going in here and how can I like
ship that to our customers, as well.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's super cool you
used the word fun and that's that's the
word I was going to use, too. Just cuz
uh like that's I don't know. I think
that's what resonates off of you guys is
you're working on something that you are
the user of that is being used by people
that are like you that you really care
about um and changing the way a lot of
people are building and shipping
software which is just super exciting
and and what a better time than to be
doing that right now, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's nothing I'd rather
be working on and like no one else I'd
rather be working on it with, so it's
pretty pretty awesome. Well, thank you
guys so much for coming in.
This was this was great to to hear some
of your insights on where things are
going and hear more about how you guys
operate within Conductor, so appreciate
you joining.
>> Awesome. Thanks for having us.
>> [music]
[music]