Video ID: UGYnC9zqa-k
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGYnC9zqa-k
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 927
============================================================

[music]
>> I am excited to welcome Sherwood from
Sasabi, who has exited his first YC
company and is coming back through the
YC batch again for a second time.
Sherwood, thanks so much for joining.
>> Yeah, really excited to participate in
the upcoming YC batch. Uh be back here
for a second time. I think it's going to
be a really different experience and to
introduce Sasabi to to the batch and to
into the world.
>> Yeah, amazing. So maybe to start off, um
tell us a little bit about what Sasabi
does. Sasabi is an AI native
observability platform. It's
specifically designed for a fast-moving
engineering teams. Um and one way to
think about it is like it's like a
DataDog or a Sentry, but instead of
being built in 2010 or 2012, it's built
in 2026 and it's aggressively AI native
or uses a lot of AI agents.
Um and the idea basically came from this
experience I've had over the course of
my engineering career where
every time there's an outage in
production, every time there's a bug, I
would spend hours digging through
dashboards and log searches and looking
at flame graphs and kind of not really
knowing what's going on and eventually I
might get to the root cause, maybe not.
Uh I felt like AI coding tools had
gotten very powerful and the the part of
my job that involved creating new
software was was uh really changing, but
the part of my job that involved
maintaining existing software wasn't
really changing.
With Sasabi, customers can basically ask
questions about how their production
system is doing. They can ask things
like why is production down or what does
this error mean or which customers are
affected or which commit is responsible.
It makes it very easy to to find and fix
production issues. Amazing. And you you
kind of a controversial take on this and
how you're building it that it's just
built off of the log files, right? Tell
us a little bit more about that.
>> Yes, so one of the things that we say at
Sasabi is logs are all you need.
And it's actually one of three different
sort of hot takes that we have. We call
them our core principles. They're part
of our manifesto which we we published.
Logs are all you need specifically
refers to this idea that we think you
only need logs, like only need this
specific type of telemetry to do
observability well. Um and that's
controversial because
in the past for a long time,
uh people would say that you need
something called the three pillars of
observability. You need logs, metrics,
and traces.
And that's because like these different
data types serve different types of
queries and then some data types are are
large and some some data types are small
and so for different types of things you
you you end up end up end up using these
different kinds of data.
But the result is that you have three
different things that you need to
instrument. So for every engineering
team out there, they need to implement
logs, metrics, and traces for all of
their services. That's a huge pain in
the butt. Logs relative to metrics and
traces are so much easier to use. Like
every developer knows how to do a print
statement and every developer knows how
to read a log stream. And so we think
that logs kind of represent the Occam's
razor
of observability. Like it's anyone can
do it. Like it's the simplest possible
way of of doing it. Um then there's
another thing which makes this true,
uh which is this AI paradigm shift. So
in the past, logs were kind of the least
valuable type of telemetry because
they're mostly unstructured
unstructured.
Um
that's that refers to the fact that like
the log line contains like natural
language and that's and uh you can't
like have a machine read over it and
derive a lot of insight. Well, obviously
AI changes what's possible there and uh
you can now have AI agents read all of
your log lines and tell you what's going
on. So that's the idea behind logs are
all you need. Very cool. And obviously
observability is changing a lot over the
last couple decades, but um talk about
how you got your start early on setting
up observability at Brex.
Yeah, so I started my career as a
front-end engineer, but I was like the
junior-most front-end engineer at
Crunchbase originally and because you're
junior, like you don't get to work on
any of the important stuff. So my team
was complaining about CI/CD and about
how long their builds and deploys would
take. So I went down this rabbit hole
which is CI/CD and figured out how to
make our deploys faster.
And
that led me to infrastructure and DevOps
and which turned out to be something
that was really fascinating for me. I
got basically obsessed with this problem
of like how do we make production
reliable and how do we make developers
more productive and allow them to to to
ship faster and to ship higher quality
code. So
I was already kind of primed and
interested in that space and then I went
to join Brex where I was lucky to be
basically the third infrastructure
engineer at Brex.
I think it was roughly employee 70.
And they had just stood up what what
they call their foundation team.
My the second infrastructure engineer I
think had joined the same week. So I
can't quite call myself the second, but
like really close.
Uh and actually he works at Sasabi
today, which is great.
While I was at Brex, first we built out
all of Brex's infrastructure that
supported the company through
hypergrowth. So all of our staging and
and production environments, the
microservice framework, CI/CD system.
Eventually when we had rolled out like a
lot of this basic infrastructure and the
foundation team had grown a lot,
we were in this position where we were
starting to splinter the foundation team
into different subteams and focus on
different specializations.
And we had found ourselves in a position
where we had like
50 different microservices running in
Kubernetes as a part of our production
cluster and they're all owned by
different teams and some teams would own
multiple microservices and it was
getting hard to kind of know what was
going on in production. And so
the answer I didn't know at the time
because I was too junior, but the answer
is observability. Like this is the
reason that observability exists to help
developers or engineering teams ask
questions about their production
systems. And so
I was fortunate to be one of the team
members that helped start the
observability team at Brex. And then
while working on on observability at
Brex, I became very observability
pilled.
Basically like the observability
philosophy is that you can you can have
integration tests, you can have unit
tests, you can have QA processes, you
can have like release processes. You can
do everything you want like static
analysis before the code goes to
production to try to make sure that it's
right and that it's going to behave
well. But like nothing really prepares
you for production. It's what reminds me
of that um
that Mike Tyson quote where he's like,
you know, everyone's got a plan until
they get punched in the face.
>> Right.
That's so true of of shipping software.
Uh so
once you're in a production, you just
can't predict what's going to happen.
You can only prepare yourself to respond
and that's what observability is. And
how long did you spend building that out
at Brex? I worked on observability at
Brex for about a year. In total, I
worked at Brex for about 2 and 1/2
years.
The main things that we did while we
were on that observability team was
setting up auto instrumentation. So all
of every microservice that gets created
automatically receives a bunch of
metrics and traces and logs. Um
installing all the infrastructure that's
responsible for capturing and forwarding
that information to our observability
systems. Setting up tools like DataDog
and configuring them. Like I went I mean
DataDog has like hundreds of modules,
but I feel like I've explored every
single one and every knob and
configuration option and and tuned it
appropriately for for the team at Brex.
And then now I've done that at a couple
different companies.
Um and other things like making sure
that every service has
like a dashboard that covers all of the
key metrics and
and basic monitors. And driving SLO and
SLI adoption, which is a little bit
more that's some observability lingo
that is more common in the the
enterprise and SRE space, but basically
making sure that every team knows how to
use observability tools and is measuring
their services.
And talk about your decision to
ultimately leave Brex and start your own
company. Yeah, honestly I feel like I'd
been waiting for a long time. I I
started my career as a through a web
development boot camp and that boot camp
was here in San Francisco. I grew up in
North Carolina, so pretty far cry from
like Silicon Valley startup tech
culture. And while I was at this boot
camp, everyone I knew was reading Hacker
News and
wanted to work at the hot YC startup. It
was like Stripe and Gusto and Instacart
at the time.
Uh And
it was just an amazing experience for me
and it it made me really want to work in
startups and specifically to do my own
YC venture-backed tech startup. So from
the very beginning of my career like
that had been my long-term goal. While I
was working at Brex in I was living in
New York with my roommate who was also
an early Brex team member. He and I had
relocated to New York together with Brex
from San Francisco to help start this
New York office. But the the pandemic
happens and so we got stuck in New York
with like a 2-year lease.
And of course like what do you what do
two like software engineers do like when
they have a lot of free time and nothing
going on. So we started talking about
startup ideas and felt that we had a
really special team and wanted to do
something together and
applied for YC and that was
I guess the rest is history. Yeah. Um
talk a little bit about how you came up
with the idea that you originally
applied with. My first company was
called Opkit.
We went through YC Summer 21
and which was one of the COVID batches.
And what Opkit was was a voice AI for
health care company. So we built
LLM-based voice agents to automate calls
to insurance companies for things like
uh eligibility, which is basically when
the the provider tries to determine
whether you have coverage or not for
your procedure and for
prior authorization, which is another
hoop that insurance companies make you
jump through to get certain procedures.
And also to do claims to check on status
of of claims that have been submitted.
Um It's a pretty esoteric
field. It's a very big big field, but
it's a far cry from anything I'd done
previous. Yeah, why did you decide to
work on that?
Yeah, it's I was well I guess to start
with my my dad was a doctor growing up.
Um so I had a little bit of a lens of
like, you know, if if I know if what I
know is like just software engineering
and tech startups and you know, I need
to have an idea that's like out in the
real world, right? Like then that
impacts real businesses, not like just
tech businesses. So, the only field that
I really knew anything about outside of
technology was was healthcare. And I
felt like I had access to my dad who's a
subject matter expert and to his
practice and his his colleagues and I
could go interview the the staff and the
the administrators there.
Um so, it felt like an opening and it
meanwhile like I was coming from a lens
of having worked at Brex and having been
very interested in fintech during
fintech's like real rise from like
during the second half of the 2010s. And
was thinking about like what's next for
fintech. It's seems like we've done a
lot of like consumer fintech and now we
have like the Brexes of the world, the
Brexes and the Mercurys.
Um maybe verticalized fintech would be
what's next. And so, I thought why not?
Like healthcare seems like a big
vertical. Like there's a lot of money
moving there.
Um
And in retrospect, I think
uh Opkit was kind of like an MBA case
study approach to to picking a company
or picking an idea. It wasn't based on
personal experience or insight or like
or passion, candidly. It was based on
this this real desire to start something
and
and grasping basically for for whatever
I think I wherever there was an
opportunity. Yeah. Did you ever consider
moving outside of healthcare or for you
know, the like you spent years working
on Opkit?
>> Yeah. Yeah, we spent
>> Was it always like this is a healthcare
company and we must stay within
healthcare? Yeah. We you know, I regret
not evaluating that like fundamental
condition more carefully.
I mean, actually I don't have a ton of
regrets because I am here where I am
today and like all
those there are a lot of hard lessons
learned from Opkit, but now Sizabi gets
to benefit from all of them.
But we went in like with a healthcare
idea and I my my co-founder Justin and I
love working together and we felt like
we were learning a lot and making some
progress. Slow slow and steady progress.
Um and peeling back layers of the
healthcare ecosystem and learning about
new problems within the space. So, we we
enjoyed it, but I don't think that it
was the right thing for us to be working
on. And
one thing that I wish we had thought
thought more about is like whether this
is really playing to our strengths. Mhm.
Um and I think that's like a great piece
of advice for for YC founders and
founders in general. It's like look for
your personal expertise or um or or
build based something something based on
your prior experience. You probably have
more prior experience than
than you think. And there're probably
more openings there than you realize.
Yeah.
>> You don't need to build a business in
some other field just because it feels
like whatever you're you've been doing
is is not real. Yeah. Yeah, we tend to
see that a lot. People that have a lot
of experience in an area for years, you
know, observability and even in fintech,
you probably had a lot of fintech
experience much more than than other
people would.
>> Yeah. And then explicitly saying, "I
don't want to do that because I either I
know too much about it, so I know, you
know, all the problems or what's going
to be difficult about it.
Or I'm kind of burned out on it. And so,
I'm going to go and do something that
I've never done before and I don't have
the depth of experience or insights on."
Was there a moment when you were
building Opkit maybe in hindsight
looking back where you're like, "I
should have known at this moment that
this was not the right thing for us."
>> I think what's funny was like we were
definitely not the right team to start a
healthcare fintech company or a
healthcare AI company when we started.
But progressively we became that team.
So, ironically like if I had if I if
Sizabi were a different kind of company,
it could have been a healthcare or
health tech company because we have now
4 years of hard-earned experience in
that space. And at some point it was
like, "Oh, we've got 1 year of
experience in this space and we're like
know more than anyone we talked to." Um
and I guess this is the definition of
the sunk cost fallacy, but uh
there were there were times when we
especially during YC, which was at the
very beginning of our company, which
really kind of like kicked us out of the
out of the nest so to some extent. Um
where we evaluated it, but we I don't
think we went deep enough about that or
really reckoned with like what it would
look like for us to spend the next 10
years of our life working on a
healthcare or health tech company. Um
yeah, we should have thought harder
about that. Yeah. Well, it's like the
curse of the second time founder a lot
of times is
>> [clears throat]
>> coming up with the idea to work on
because you know too much. And one of I
mean, you're describing naivete of
jumping into this space that you knew
nothing about and trying to learn as
quickly as you can, but sometimes that's
what's needed to just be able to Yeah, I
I I think that's true. I mean, I think
that if you're especially if you're like
a really young person and you already
you want to get started, you like you
can be an expert at anything, but you
have to be prepared to put a couple of
years of experience in
to to learn the ropes, to ramp up, to
build a network,
to gain trust with with people in the
space. Yeah. Cuz um
the those things are required, I think.
They're preconditions for success. But
if you have some experience, like it
doesn't need to be hard. Like you can
just trade on the experience that you've
already gained thus far. And for Sizabi,
I
you know, if everything about Opkit was
out of alignment with who I am and my
background and my experience and my
passion, with Sizabi like the first
thing I wanted to do was to align
everything with who I am. And so, I was
like, "I'm going to build a tool for
people like me
based on my personal experience. Like
it's going to be an observability thing.
It's going to be a developer tool. I'm
going to sell it to
early and growth stage tech startups,
which is like the only companies ever
I've ever worked at." Um and I'm going
to name it after Mobile Suit Gundam,
which is a 1970s
80s era sci-fi anime, which I love. So,
I was like this is a symbolic act about
making Sizabi
in alignment with who I am. Yeah. And
that's probably the most important thing
that we most important mistake I think
we made with with Opkit. Yeah. Yeah,
talk about that maybe like the tail end
of the Opkit journey and some of the
lessons that you learned there and then
what brought you back to starting
another company
and deciding [clears throat] to work on
this. I guess to catch people up on
Opkit, we were working for about two-ish
years and we had built what's called a
revenue cycle management software
company where we were basically helping
medical practices
check patients' insurance when they come
in,
keep that information on file and then
prepare and submit claims to insurance
companies. We had built kind of a
traditional SaaS tool for this. Um LLMs
obviously happened in that time. And one
one of the things we learned while
working on Opkit is that there's a lot
of operations that healthcare providers
can only do over the phone with
insurance companies. And that's we can
maybe that's by design, maybe that's
not.
And so, we had built a call center in
the Philippines of people who were
calling insurance companies
to support our the rest of our product.
Um and we started using LLMs to to
quality assurance on those calls and to
do data entry and data extraction from
the call transcripts. And then we built
an LLM voice agent. So, I I think we
were one of the first teams to actually
build and commercialize an LLM based
voice agent in healthcare.
>> Mhm. Um it was very early. It was very
hard.
I think we really enjoyed the
engineering challenge more than anything
else, which probably points to to what
we should have been doing.
>> Yeah. And we did that pivot in our last
or in our second year at Opkit.
Um and so, then our
we had about a year worth of runway left
to build and commercialize that
solution, basically retool the company,
reframe it and then
and go out and try to raise a seed
extension to see if we can kind of keep
things going. And got to the point where
we had about 6 more months left of
runway. We had prepared all of our
materials. We had launched the products.
Went out to fundraise. Some of our early
conversations were were not that
exciting.
Kind of didn't seem like investors were
super super interested and that led us
to reconsider whether this was the right
thing for us to be doing. So, um our
decision was that it was not. And there
was still plenty of time for us to go do
something better. Mhm. So, we then
started to seek out acquirers and talked
to a lot of growth stage healthcare
companies and growth stage fintech
companies and that to be honest, that
felt like more of the same. You know,
we'd be
be in a larger organization doing some
of the working on some of the same
problems we've already been working on.
Mhm. Uh and then we talked to one AI
sales tech company called 11x, which is
based here in San Francisco, um
that was growing super fast. They were
building a voice agent. We we knew their
CTO from from Brex.
>> Mhm. And it seemed like
a much more exciting place for us to be.
We wanted to get closer to to AI. And
so, we decided to join 11x. Very cool.
Yeah, talk about the decision to leave
that and then start Sizabi again and I
mean, 11x was amazing and and
I'm really proud of the product we built
there and the team we our team came in
and and did a lot of great engineering
work there.
But
first thing we did was rebuild their AI
SDR product, their sales rep. And
that was probably like a 3 to 4-month
long project of building it from
scratch, cutting over from the old
platform to the new platform and and
scaling it and kind of getting it to
steady state. And in month like five
where most of that work had been done,
we're now in sort of maintenance mode.
And that's like, "Okay, well, I've now
set up DataDog again. I've set up all of
the observability tools and CI/CD tools
that I always set up." And because I'm
tech lead for this project, anytime
something goes wrong, like I get a Slack
message or someone like a go-to-market
person comes and like taps on my
shoulder. Um so, now I'm like the
on-call guy. Mhm. And
I found myself we had we're building a
futuristic AI product using futuristic
AI coding tools and then I would go to
debug it and it was the same painful
manual experience that I've had for my
entire career. Uh and so, it was just it
it was a painfully clear to me that we
were going to do to observability what
was already being done to like code
generation or or the the act of creating
new code. Mhm. Uh and I also realized,
"Wait a second, like this is like the
perfect company for me." Right? Like
it's it it's completely aligned with my
interests, my experience, my combination
of experience and and now AI and
and infrastructure and dev tools and
observability. And you know, I'm a I'm I
I've already been a founder, so I kind
of
it's not it wouldn't be a scary new
thing. Like I know how to fund raise, I
know how to build a team,
I know how to do a big launch, and I
know how to do press.
Um
So all of the I I felt like I had all of
the right ingredients to do this company
and that this was like the company I was
born to to build. Yeah, talk about
anything that you specifically want to
do differently with this company based
on lessons that you learned from
building Opkit. Yeah, I mean the the big
one was like build something I know.
Leverage my personal experience, play to
my strengths. Call it Sasabi because it
should be
it should be a representation of who I
am.
Um
Another one is that I thought it should
be fun.
And I think as fun as Opkit was, like I
I loved working with my co-founder, my
best friends. I loved going to YC.
Healthcare was like intellectually
rewarding and and interesting and
there were a lot of new experiences
which were which was which was great. I
can't say that it was like fun. You
know, like we were pushing that boulder
and the boulder never really they tell
you like the boulder you get over the
hill and the boulder starts to roll.
Like it never really rolled for us and
it was really hard.
Um
So my decision to start Sasabi was like
when I start this new company, it's
going to be fun.
Um and so I I
I think that calling it something that I
I love and and building in a space that
I love and working with frankly like
customers and and other developers that
I would be grabbing beers with anyways
if I wasn't doing this if they weren't
my customers.
Uh was another thing another thing that
I wanted to do to make it feel like like
a better time. Yep. Yep. Talk about your
future vision for Sasabi. Where's it
going 5 to 10 years from now? Well, our
our mission is to become the default
observability tool for all companies in
what we call the AI era, which I would
say is
probably starts with the agentic like
the year of agents in 2025 and and
forwards.
Uh our vision is to create this world of
self-healing software where software
improves in self without human
intervention or direction. And I think
you know, one thing that I that I remark
on or reflect on is the fact like
companies like Cursor are automating
this part of the software development
role, which is like creating new
features in apps. And that's obviously
like a big part of the job in software
engineering is like a trillion-dollar
industry globally. So I like big
opportunity. Cursor is a big company.
But a much bigger part of my job as a
developer is maintaining software that's
already been written.
And I think that is the opportunity for
Sasabi and that's what we're focused on.
So um
I I think we definitely have the the
chance to be like a really incredible
and generational company building what
we're building. Yeah, amazing. Talk
about the decision to come back and and
do YC again for a second time.
>> Yeah, this one is interesting. I feel
like there's like a lot of reasons not
to, right? It's like
uh I've already done YC, I'm already a
part of the network, yeah I've already
got access to book bookface. Um
you know, it's on my resume, which I
feel like that's what a lot of people
want. So it's a little counterintuitive.
Um
I guess from a business perspective,
the first thing that comes to mind is
that YC is an accelerator and
we need to accelerate. Like Sasabi needs
to accelerate. Uh our opportunity is
here today. Like we'll not be here
forever. There are other companies that
will try to do it and
I don't want to waste any time. Like it
feels like very ephemeral to me. So I
I want my team to move fast. I think YC
will help us move faster.
Another thing is kind of um
culturally I I want like to establish a
culture at Sasabi that is kind of based
on some of the or is imbued with some of
the YC values. Like YC will create like
it creates a deadline for us very early.
It has many there are many smaller
deadlines along the way, so we just have
to get used to this this cadence of
shipping quickly and
YC also pushes you to get to market
super fast, which I don't we have a team
of engineers, right? We're like eight
engineers something. So yeah, it's it
would be very easy for us to just build
forever and not commercialize. So
I want that.
Um
And I I guess on a the last note related
to
for from a business perspective is get
distribution and go to market.
Um and this is like a little more
tactical, but
every YC company is a software company.
Every software company has an
observability solution.
Sasabi should be that solution.
Um I will be following in a tradition of
great YC companies like Brax and Deal
and Rippling that have sold into their
batchmates really successfully.
Uh and I I think that Sasabi can do the
same thing. So I want to use that as an
opportunity. Yeah.
Then on a personal level
my first YC experience was
was remote.
Uh we were one of the cohort batches. So
it's really different experience. I
mean, I'm here in this space today that
I've actually I I've never been in this
building before.
Uh
which I think is like
points to the fact that I have not had
like the full experience and it's been a
dream for a long time. So I want I want
to
I want to stand on the stage at demo day
and and actually have the experience and
and make real connections with my
batchmates that happened here in person.
What's something you wish you knew at
the beginning of this journey? You've
you've been through the arc of starting
one and
>> Which beginning are we talking exiting
it and starting a new one and
maybe if there was something that you
could go back and tell yourself
at the beginning of
the Opkit journey, your first time going
around during YC. What what is the
advice you would give yourself?
I wouldn't want to give any advice that
would actually change the outcome
because I think I'm building the the
perfect company today.
And I I think all of the years of like
eating glass with Opkit, like that's
like my Glengarry Glen Ross period,
right? Where I just like knocking on
providers' doors and they're like don't
want to take my meeting and
we built a lot of grit and learned a lot
about like how to build a startup under
tough circumstances.
So I'm really grateful for those lessons
and would not give them away.
Something that I might tell myself or
maybe just remind myself
is that startups are you know, a lot of
people perceive startups to be short and
fast, but actually we are in a long-term
game. It's like a long horizon game. And
the lessons I learned from Opkit, the
relationships I built with investors,
with customers, with other engineers,
like I still keep up with my batchmates.
Um
the you know, I I I've many of my
batchmates are starting other companies
that I could sell into or
like I could potentially recruit them.
Like these are relationships that we you
build over a long period of time and uh
they compound. And so it's it's good to
remember
to remember that, be mindful of it. Uh
Have integrity, be good to everyone you
work with cuz you never know. Like 5
years from now you might be asking them
for money. Um
So yeah, I I would I think that's a good
good tip probably. For anybody that's
watching
talk about
hiring and the ideal engineers to come
and work at Sasabi. We are definitely
hiring.
We're hiring a lot of different roles. I
would say that the
ideal candidates are
they're high agency, they learn quickly,
they they love tools. It doesn't need to
be dev tools specifically, but just
tools. Like they kind of geek out on
the the saw so to speak, like the thing
that makes you helps you do the thing.
Former founders are great. People I
mean, former founders just like have to
figure things out, you know, it's
and uh
they know what it's like to just do hard
work to um to put in long hours or to do
things that are unsexy.
Uh they're also very flexible and I
think right now with AI, we never we
don't really know what our jobs are
going to look like or what the what the
org structure and the different
departments are going to look like 2
years from now. So we'll we need people
who are flexible and self-starters.
Uh
on a more practical level, like we're
looking to basically hire software
engineers in a lot of different roles.
So
data and databases and infrastructure
are hugely important to Sasabi. Like we
build our own log ingestion and storage
system. It's one of the things that sets
us apart from a lot of other
observability tools. And so we need to
have best-in-class infrastructure and
expertise at the database level or the
storage level.
Um we need full-stack product engineers,
of course.
And we also need like front-end and
design engineers. So people who
I like to say that we're building the
linear of observability. Like it's going
to look and feel amazing because
you know, if you look at Datadog, it
does not feel that way.
Um
So I want to I want to hire engineers
who have who like appreciate aesthetics
and design and
and attention to detail. And so that
that's where the front-end design comes
into play. Amazing.
Well, Shomik, thank you so much for
joining.
Super excited to work with you on Sasabi
as well. I think you are going to build
a massive generational company because
you're building something that you know
a lot about and that you're passionate
about and that you have deep insights in
and I'm so glad you came back home
>> [laughter]
>> to the thing Yeah, thanks for finding
me. Yeah, that you know, you know, you
know so well and really is the space and
the idea and the business that you are
the exact right person to be building.
Yeah, I hope that I hope that other
founders can kind of learn from my my
story and and find whatever their like
I've heard it referred to as a tombstone
company. So I want other developer or
other founders to find their tombstone
company
and and come do it here at YC. Yeah,
amazing. Thanks for joining. Cool. Thank
you.
>> [music]
[music]