Video ID: UpWNdSVWA7M
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UpWNdSVWA7M
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1015
============================================================

[music]
>> Hey everyone. I'm excited to be joined
here today by Weiwei and Jeff. They're
the co-founders of Mnemonic. Mnemonic
went through YC in winter 2024
and just raised their $50 million series
A round. Weiwei and Jeff, why don't you
tell us what Mnemonic does? Yeah, you
know, Mnemonic is the verification layer
for software. You know, you we power
awesome companies like Notion, Built,
Quora, Zero, and you know, we're
processing over a million test runs a
day.
>> And you just raised $50 million in your
series A from Standard Capital.
Maybe tell us a bit about why did you
raise the round now? Yeah, yeah. So, so
for us, we were at a place where we had
a,
you know, repeatable sales motion and,
you know, we wanted to raise to scale,
you know, both our engineering and
go-to-market team so we could build more
and, you know, you know, get more
customers. And why Standard Capital? Why
did you choose them as your lead? Yeah,
yeah. For for us, like the decision came
down what was pretty simple. You know,
Standard was a very quick process, you
know,
we were, you know, we applied through
online, you know, very
not not too unlike, you know, the
application for YC. And I think the one
of the big standouts for us is like, you
know, instead of having a, you know,
board member on our board, we have a
peer group of other similar stage, you
know, series A companies to, you know,
do our board meetings with, you know,
where you know, it's a peer group where
we're learning and, you know, uh helping
each other.
>> For people who aren't technical, maybe
who aren't developers, um explain sort
of what testing even is and then what
does Mnemonic actually do for
developers? Yeah, yeah, for sure. So,
the, you know, the the quick 101 on
testing is that, you know, if I'm
shipping code, how do I make sure my app
isn't broken? And, you know, especially
as my app is getting larger and larger,
you know, there's multiple people,
multiple teams working on it. There's
different product lines. And
how do I make sure it's not broken? And
testing is, you know, the solution to
that. You know, you you have teams
manually testing, which is incredibly
efficient. And you know, you have teams
also, you know, dipping their toes into
automation. So, how do we make this
process faster, more efficient without
taking as much, you know, valuable
engineering time? And but the the end
goal is always like how do I make sure
my product is working as I expect? One
thing that developers are known for
traditionally is not wanting to write
tests, not enjoying testing. Like, is
that true for both of you in your
careers as engineers? And so, if so,
like why? Why has there always been this
reluctance to write tests?
Yeah, I think so. Um when I was at
Robinhood, I saw the team grow from 300
engineers to over 1,000. And my entire
job was basically uh managing eight
people and trying to get those eight
people to convince the other thousand
people to write and maintain tests. Uh
and our goal was to cover 80% of the
code that we wrote uh and maintained a
90% pass rate. And it was basically
impossible to do that. Basically, like
no one cared about this. And I think it
just boils down to the fact that it
doesn't feel like productive work. Like
it's not work that your customer sees.
It's not work that you get to show
someone in like a flashy demo. Uh it's
not work that like shows up on your
performance evaluation, right? Uh and
so, because of that, it always feels
like a drag, like a secondary
afterthought. Um and that's when, you
know, there's really a risk to quality
and reliability. Now, as we're entering
this era of code gen, there's like it's
so fast moving. Like one one day it's
cursor, the next day it's called code.
Um maybe the next day it's codex. Um
one thing that's clearly staying
constant is just like the amount of
code, like lines of code being written
per day is growing exponentially. Um
how is that going to impact the need for
Momentic in testing? Like where do you
Where have you seen that affect your
business? Yeah, for sure. I think um
as the amount of code output is
increasing, we see massive bottlenecks,
you know, where there may may not be
before in terms of just like, how do I
actually verify the work? You know,
there's You know, you have linters, you
have code review, but then how do you
actually make sure this works when this
is deployed to production?
>> Explain Explain for people who aren't
like um engineers themselves kind of
what conceptually what are linters and
what's code review and how do that How
does that fit in under the umbrella of
of testing and and shipping?
>> Yeah, yeah. So, um I think, you know,
when you're shipping a high volume of
code, there's certain tools you can use
to, you know, verify that, you know, the
code follows good patterns. Like, you
can have linters that, you know, scans
through your code, make sure you're
using the, you know, following the right
patterns, you know, following the right
best practices. You can also have a code
review where you know, it's it can
human, another engineer, review your
code that you're about to merge. Or, you
know, recently there's been a lot of AI
code reviewers where, you know, help
helping to take some of that burden off
of humans. And I think an important part
that Momentic solves is beyond all these
different checks that you already have
today, how do you actually make sure
it's actually working live? And, you
know, the the status quo, you know, for
a lot of teams is, you know, I'm going
to go in as a human and log in and
manually click around and do like a bug
bash every time before a release. And
that's just not scalable when you, you
know, your product is growing, you have
a lot of engineers. And it's also, you
know, this is very slow and very
expensive. And so then where exactly
does Momentic fit into that flow? Like,
you know, you have engineers
writing the code, you have linters
looking for like, you know, does it
conform to the right patterns or not?
You have humans reviewing code. Where
does Momentic fit in there? Yeah, so uh
the the type of testing that Momentech
does is
what we call it functional testing. It's
acting, impersonating one of your users,
actually going through your app, and you
know, clicking through, and you know,
making sure all of the user flows
that I can achieve is actually working.
And how we fit in is, you know, as an
engineer makes a code change, you know,
their change is going to impact
production in some way. We just make
sure that everything that they care
about doesn't break. You know, from an
end user's perspective.
How should engineers think about where
you fit into the dev stack? I've
certainly noticed this on our own
engineering team at YC, like as Claude
code usage has ramped up, um
we've now set up sort of pipeline that
you see in the Claude MD file actually
to just like make sure you like run your
own tests, and like make sure they all
pass before you like submit any
PRs or MRs, like
where should someone where is an
engineer
who currently doesn't have Momentech in
their like in that dev stack, where
should they think about it inserting
you?
Yeah, so I think there's a couple
places. One is within your developer
loop. We're seeing a lot of customers
actually use our MTP integration to have
cursor or Claude code
write and run Momentech tests while
they're developing. So actually, while
they're creating a new feature or
editing an existing feature, they'll,
you know, make sure that these coding
agents also verify that that change is
functionally correct by calling out to
Momentech, starting a real browser,
verifying that the flow actually works.
>> So like a tool it's basically a tool
called for one of the agents to like and
and so and why is that better than the
agent to sort of writing its own tests
from scratch? Yeah, yeah. So one thing
that we've seen is like first of all,
the agent often thinks that it doesn't
have to do that or whatever it's done is
just correct even though it's not.
And and these agents aren't optimized uh
for browser use, especially in a testing
capacity. Uh, so uh some of our
customers have incredibly complex sites
um that are actually incredibly hard to
interact with, right? Like rich text
editors, drag and drop editors, uh
things that have like canvases, right?
And these types of applications uh are
just uh relatively difficult to verify.
Um, but we specialized our agents to
deal with that.
>> It's also really slow. Like I've used
this for just like side projects where
you you have the like Cloud Code browser
extension. You can tell Cloud Code to
like use the browser extension to like
find figure out what's going on with
this bug, but it's just like so slow.
Um, I presume your agents are like
optimized for for speed and and and
actually being able to test a complex
app. Yeah, so the average step for us
runs in under 300 milliseconds. Uh, and
uh to your point, we've also optimized
the debuggability UX part of it. So,
it's really hard to know what went wrong
uh if you use a traditional browser
agent. Uh, you know, it's hard to debug,
you know, exactly what element was
inter- acted with or what the state of
the page was. Uh, we've essentially
built the whole platform around that
type of user experience, and we have
agents that uh help with that as well.
Like they automatically diagnose these
issues for you. Yeah, cuz I find the
existing agents are but it's a it works
okay-ish if you know it like you've got
some like file upload button that's not
working. Like open web browser and like
figure out why file upload is not
working. Whereas you guys are like I
don't have to specify that at all. Like
yeah, I just give you the app and you
will just like
figure out like all the various things
to test and what the correct tests are.
Yeah, exactly. Like um like any user
flow you can describe
whether it's like to a manual tester or
to an AI or you know, probably to Cursor
or Cloud Code when you're building it.
Just give it to MomenTic, and you know,
we'll validate it.
And then something going back to you
mentioned code review and you suddenly
went like code review like Cursor Bug
Bot, Reptile, um these things are like
very popular again. Like the YC
engineering pipeline we have these um
integrated in.
I don't know,
So, what does the future dev stack look
like? Are people using you and code
review tools?
Are you sort of competing for developer
mindshare? Like where like is
are they sort of like totally orthogonal
to each other? Like what what's Yeah,
yeah. I think I think that's a great
question. And I think like, you know,
taking a step back is like I would be
disappointed in, you know, 3 to 6 months
I'm still reviewing TypeScript or React
code. And I think like the future of
software is moving towards a world
where, you know, I as an engineer can,
you know, provide a plain English spec
to some AI agent. It's going to build
it, verify, make sure it all works
according to the, you know, the success
criteria, all the different edge cases
I've specked out. I see, you know, code
as a implementation detail. It's a it's
a commodity, you know, some model
frontier model out there or, you know,
frontier
AI coding tool is going to be incredibly
good at generating code. It's just
implementation detail. And today I think
we have code review because
uh
we're still we still care very much
about the code that's being generated,
but I don't think that's necessarily
going to be true in, you know, the next,
you know, 3 to 6 to to 9 months. What
what do you like let's assume the models
are going to keep getting better and
better and just like the quality of the
code they output is going to get better
and better. Again, like how how does
that impact your outlook for Memento
code over the next
X months? I think it impacts user
behavior more than anything. Like today
engineers are still very much focused on
what code is being generated, but I
think as these models get better,
that'll be less and less of the focus
and humans will be more like
requirements gatherers or they'll be
sort of like truth finders, right? Like
their goal is basically to figure out
like what should be written, what should
be built in the first place, right? Like
what are the requirements from the end
user or like, you know, I have a
thousand feature requests from, you
know, various like customers, which ones
are actually the ones that I'm supposed
to build, right?
Uh and so they kind of become that like
almost like uh you know,
the inputs to the, you know, code
generated black box. And then we're the
sort of step that actually validates
that whatever the black box
generates is functional. That setting
lines up with my own experience as a
developer cuz I feel like that you can
clear the model like the quality of the
model is getting better and better. Um
but like they will still confidently go
off in like the wrong direction and then
you're sort of doing this patchwork of
like adding things to your code MD file.
And trying to make sure it like steers
and like it it like consults you before
it like I mean plan mode is the obvious
example, but even sometimes plan mode is
not enough if you're like you have to
sort of like
like before you like go off and like
assume that like this hypothesis for
debugging is correct, like run it by me
first. But like yeah, the dream would be
to just have like a external source of
truth that just knows everything about
how my users are using my app and it can
consult that and figure out kind of like
no, I should like this is of these three
hypotheses, this is kind of where I
should go. Is that like the the way that
you imagine Momentic interacts with the
coding agents? Yeah, yeah. I think the
the coding agents
you know, is going to be informed on
what to build by the spec. And you know,
the spec would have details about like,
you know, what is the different user
flows it needs to build, what are the
different features, how it's supposed to
work. And that spec is also, you know,
the guardrails of like how do you verify
these requirements are met? And that's
completely going to be done through
Momentic. So
in a sense, it's like we're closing the
loop for, you know, for feedback for the
coding agents.
And why what's the reason that that's
always going to be a better product sort
of as a as standalone product outside of
like the coding agent itself? [snorts]
>> One of the things that's pretty
interesting is
um
today
uh the the coding agents are you know it
can you know it's generating code it can
prompt you for feedback it can you know
access third-party tools you know
different dependencies through through
MCP servers or or CLI. And I think one
of the things that's incredibly
important is
um
how do you make sure you know the always
the the open question at the end of the
day is like how do I make sure you know
cursor or Claude code actually built
what I told it to build in the exactly
the way I told it to build it. And for
me like I can't really trust Claude code
or cursor to tell me themselves. You
know I need a third external source of
truth for
verifying that. It's like you know this
is why I have like unit tests I have
integration tests uh and you know at
different parts of of the stack. And
I think that's an incredibly important
part because uh at the end of the day if
something breaks
uh you know I can't really you know tell
our customer that hey you know we vibe
coded this with Claude code you know you
know our SLA got breached because of
that you know sorry about that we're
going to reverse his their pull request.
You know I think that it doesn't really
work on like that because you know the
responsibility ultimately
is on the product owner on on on the
human who is like you know delegating to
these different AI agents.
I think the other interesting part about
this is that uh cursor or these coding
agents in general aren't maintaining a
source of truth over time right? Um
it's similar to the question of like why
don't you just cursor to generate
playwright code right? And the answer is
well you you can right now you have
100,000 lines of playwright code uh and
whenever you change your uh feature in a
meaningful way now you have 50k lines
that you have to find and update right?
Um
I think what we've done is like
essentially we have encapsulated that
whole system and so we've built a
mechanism for automatically maintaining
that source of truth over time for you
um and even going as far as like
suggesting changes to like what your
source of truth should be. Like you've
added this new, um, you know, UI
component, was that intentional? Uh, and
if so, you know, I I can automatically
actually update the test for you without
you having to go through another, you
know, 200,000 tokens, uh, or yeah, your
cursor credits in one session.
>> Cool. Um, so let's I guess then, um,
let's talk about one of your, um, one of
your biggest customers, uh, Notion. Like
maybe, um,
I would love to learn a little bit
about, um,
what kind of how were they thinking
about testing before Momenic? How did
they hear about you? Then, how do you
convince them to use you? And what's
sort of been the difference in their
workflow post-Momenic?
>> Yeah, yeah, for sure. So, I think it's a
really funny story on how, you know, we
started working with Notion is, um,
uh, Simon, uh, from from Notion actually
was posting on Twitter on like, you
know, it'd be great. I I forget exactly
what was in his tweet, um, but he was
like, it'd be great if I could just like
describe this and, you know, test it for
me. Uh, and, you know, a lot of people
were commenting on the Twitter thread. A
lot of people recommended Momenic. I was
in San Francisco actually that evening
at 10:00 p.m. I DM'd Simon, uh, Simon
last, and I was like, I I think we have
we've built exactly what you want. I can
onboard you tonight. I sent him a Loom
of like, you know, me testing on like my
own personal,
uh, Notion workspace. And, you know, we
I onboarded him that night, and then,
you know, they
it turns out, you know, it was a good
enough experience where we, you know, we
decided to do like a more official like
POC process with the broader uh, Notion
team. Um, but, you know, they were
coming from a mix of like manual
testing, a really big suite of Selenium
that the team was maintaining. And that
was just taking a lot of effort because,
you know, Selenium is like notoriously,
uh, prone to flakiness, you know,
whether it's like XPaths or selectors,
you know, which is how you target
elements on the page. Uh, you know, you
you're frequently breaking, you know,
especially since Notion is such a, you
know, a very it's a Notion's a very
flexible product, you know, the rich
text editor, you know, everything's a
database, but all of those things are
also very difficult to test with
Selenium. And
you know, we were able to handle that
with Momentic, you know,
quite quite easily, you know, through
just like plain English instructions.
And you know, now today they execute
almost like half a million test runs a
day.
Um
you know, uh Momentic tests must pass
before one of Notion's engineers can
merge their PR.
>> How does Notion sort of quantify the
value uh um they've gotten from working
with Momentic? We can think about ROI in
a a few different lenses. Like one could
be, you know,
developer hours saved with Momentic
compared to Selenium. You know, that's
like I think the easiest, especially if
you're coming from like a legacy tool
like Selenium or or Cypress or or
Playwright. Um and but I think the the
North Star is, you know, how many uh
regressions or SEVs are we you know, are
Momentic tests preventing from reaching
your end customers? Cuz you know, that
is kind of the the end goal. You know,
tests are just, you know, uh a way for
you to, you know, prevent these types of
regressions and incidents. And um you
know, that that that would be how we
would uh track ROI for, you know, our
customers and and Notion. I've heard you
uh mention this idea of like
truth-driven driven truth-driven
development. Um
What does that mean? Um and come where
does Momentic fit into that? I would say
like the two main schools of thought is
that, you know, one is your code is the
source of truth. You know, whatever's in
prod is what you've specified it to be.
You know, that's a direct reflection of
your codebase. And then uh which I think
has a a few gaps. It's not necessarily
like entirely incorrect, but you know,
code has uh bugs. And you know, are
these bugs also part of your source
truth? Is that how your, you know,
product is supposed to behave? Um, and
then the other one is like what I would
consider like, you know, truth-driven
development or like spec-driven
development. This is where, uh, someone,
typically like a human in collaboration
with AI, you know, uh, is, you know,
specking out in detail, you know,
different user journeys, user flows, uh,
success criteria, edge cases within your
application. Um, and this is the source
of truth uh, for how your product is
supposed to work. Your code is just an
implementation of that source of truth.
And, you know, because, you know,
uh,
you know, since engineers are humans,
you know, we make mistakes, you know, AI
make mistakes, we're all contributing to
this code base.
It doesn't really make sense for that
code base, you know, production to be
the source of truth for how my product
is supposed to work. So, I think like
one of the things that, you know,
especially as
all of these different AI coding tools,
how we interact with AI is increasingly
through, uh, you know, plain English
text, you know, I'm chatting with
Cursor, I'm chatting with Clyde Code,
I'm chatting with ChatGPT.
Uh, you know, our our bet is that in the
future, you know, in the near future, I
would imagine,
um,
instead of, you know, writing code and
reviewing code, I would actually just be
writing specs. And, you know, you know,
in
detailing edge cases, success criteria,
you know, that's for, you know, these AI
agent agents to, you know, to build. I
don't really code if they're using I
don't really care if they're using, you
know, TypeScript or Rust or anything
like that. They're just implementation
details to me. All I care about is, you
know, the end user journey, the end
success criteria that I've specked out
in the future, and that's like my source
of truth.
>> think the role of being an engineer then
moves away from sort of starting with
the code, looking at the code, really
deeply understanding the code, and
eventually like engineering is just
going to mean like reviewing the specs?
Or will you need any appreciation of
like the code and and
thinking about that as a as a source of
anything? Uh I mean, I think so in so
much that I think there are still many
technical aspects of being a software
engineer that are not based on the code,
right? Like thinking about how this
integrates with other systems or
third-party dependencies or you know,
the scalability aspect or even just like
thinking about taste, right? Like I
think models are not particularly good
right now
um at producing like tasteful UX for
example. And that's like the the
difference between ChatGPT
uh you know, like generating like you uh
you know, like uh like a Figma
look-alike and and actual Figma, right?
Uh like I think the the devil is very
much in the details. Uh so, I do think
the technical expertise still matters,
but at the same time um you know, I feel
like good engineers were always like
sort of their own PMs in a way. Like
they always had a you know, strong
product intuition and a sense of like
what the vision for their uh product
should be. And I think that's going to
be more and more true um as the sort of
like truth-driven development idea
becomes more prevalent. What's sort of
on the road map for you guys? Maybe
especially this year and then maybe even
further afield.
>> Yeah, well, some of the things that you
know, we've been uh working hard on uh
for example, you know, is Android, uh
iOS, you know, desktop app support. Um
and I think if anything, our focus this
year has narrowed, you know, we've seen
first hand like how fast engineers are
moving and
how and then we're always thinking about
how can we accelerate them? How can we
be faster? How can we be, you know, more
integrated with their existing tools and
workflows? And how do we make the
barrier entry, you know, zero or
negative? You know, they just fall into
this pit of success with Momentic. Um
and like on that side, like we we a big
focus this year is definitely on just
like developer experience, developer
productivity for our our customers. Uh
you know,
uh you know, beyond just like the core
primitives that we support as like a a
platform. And then maybe as a company,
kind of as you start adding people and
you grow the company, um,
how do you think about that? Like what
are the skills? And maybe especially for
engineering, like what skills do you
look for and how do you think that's
changed from to like pre-AI AI world? I
think to be honest, a good engineer is
still a really good engineer. Um, I
think um, I actually wrote a LinkedIn
post about this, but um, like Codex like
only makes you like a 10x engineer if
you weren't a 10x engineer to begin
with, you know? Uh, and I think that's
um, that underscores the fact that like
if you're adaptable, if you can navigate
like ambiguity, if you're like curious
and passionate, then that continues to
be an asset. Uh, and that's still what
we're looking for. Uh, I think, you
know, now that sort of the industry is
moving at this like incredibly fast
pace, it's even more important to be
able to, you know, adapt new trends, to
you know, be able to take in that, you
know, there's this a new like level of
tooling that you can adopt that, you
know, dramatically does accelerate your
code output. Um, and, you know, uh, I
think like as always like we need folks
with like strong product intuition as as
people
uh, at Momentech, like I think
effectively like own
like entire domains and are given a lot
of ownership and responsibility.
Have you thought about just the company
culture? Like anything, what how would
you describe your culture as being sort
of
unique to you guys at Momentech? Yeah, I
think, you know, we're still a pretty
small team. We're a team of 13 and I'll
say our culture is still, you know,
budding, early early stages. Uh, but I
think one of the things that
we care a lot about is, you know,
radical
candor. You know, it's like direct, you
know, clear, direct feedback, you know,
don't be a dick, don't be an to
your co-workers and people that you're,
you know, working with day-to-day, but
also being able to, you know, give and
receive feedback so everyone can be the
best version of themselves and you know
we want to hear everyone's voice.
Everyone has a say in our product road
map and we want to hear all of your
feedback, all of our customers feedback
and I think that's kind of the the basis
driving you know how we think about
culture
you know and you know just be a be a
pleasure to work with and and learn
from. How did you both get into
engineering and and tech and startups?
I'd like to hear like the the the quick
overview of that. When I
graduated high school I was actually
planning to be a pharmacist.
I was going to go to
like a farm D program and then the
summer
before college I
went to a pharmacy camp with a friend
and
it was the most boring experience of my
life. Like you know it's like I after
that camp I decided to change my major.
I I actually got into like you know
Minnesota they had like a in pharmacy
what do you call it? It's like two years
undergrad four year farm D program. I
was like I'm going to change my major to
computer science. Can I get into like
you know the science and engineering
college and they like let me. So I you
know that's how I got into computer
science and you know software
engineering. So I was going to study
chemistry at Cambridge actually and then
similar to your experience I did a
summer internship and the day-to-day lab
work was incredibly grueling and you
know essentially each researcher does
their own work in a fairly isolated way
and I realized that while it was like
technically interesting and I think the
problem solvers are some of the most
important problems in the world that
type of work didn't sort of challenge
all of me as a person. Like there there
was a part of me
that you know really wanted to build
products and work with other people and
and you know like rally a team and and I
think that interpersonal side of things
just like was missing from that
day-to-day life. And when I think that's
like what pushed me towards founding
Osmelly is like I think it it like the
one rule that really pushes you in like
every aspect of your life.
>> Cool. And then how did the two of you or
why how and why did you team up and work
on this specific idea?
Uh so we actually got introduced um
like end of 2023 through like a mutual
friend uh Dan Rampesin, the old CTO of
Heap. And like I was actually beta beta
testing like Dan's startup at the time
which was like called like QQBot. I
think it was like using AI to It was
like Cursor for unit test before Cursor
existed. And then um you know I was
sharing I was like uh building you know
a few prototypes on the side and uh I
was sharing with Dan. And actually Dan
introduced me to to Jeff who was kind of
you know who was building his own
product in the same uh you know in the
same space I was. So like you know we we
met, we had a quick Zoom call. Uh I was
in Seattle and Jeff was in San
Francisco. Um and you know I actually
flew down I stayed on Jeff's couch for
like a week or so
um you know before uh you know we
decided to like join forces and you know
you know build Momentic together.
And what prompted you to apply to YC and
what was that process like?
I think it was your idea actually. Uh I
was incredibly unconvinced we would get
in actually. Um
and um you know at that time we had a
little more than a prototype. Uh AI
agents were really bad at that point. Um
models still had like 16K and like token
limits which meant that most websites
wouldn't actually fit uh within the
context window.
Um and you know we barely had any market
traction. Um so you know I thought that
there's no way they would take us. Uh
but I think Weiwei convinced me he was
like you know we've been jamming on
this. I see the potential
um and we might as well throw in an
application. Uh so we we did that and
and here we are. Yeah I think for all
what it's worth we had a like I think
like six or seven pilot customers at the
time that you know we were hopeful were
would convert. So you know we I think we
had you know good quality of customer
feedback and interactions. Yeah. Yeah.
That helps.
>> [laughter]
>> As founders now in your journey, what
have been some of like the most
challenging moments
running and growing the company and
have you handled them? For me, I would
say building the company early on in
terms of head count was really
challenging. Especially at the seed
stage, you know, there's a ton of seed
stage startups right now building a lot
of cool stuff.
And when people say, you know, see like
AI seed stage startup, I think like
there's a lot of thrash right now. Like
people don't know what what to choose
from.
And you know, especially given like how
popular
and strong the sort of foundational
model companies are, there's like a
strong draw kind of like away from the
startup kind of market. So I think we
had a really tough time with you know,
just like an early talent and and
convincing people that we were you know,
going to win it.
I think we had to really double down on
proving that you know, our culture was
solid. Like we invested a ton in
in our interview process
where we would talk to people multiple
times before they you know,
ever did a single interview.
We would be really intentional about the
onsite. We ended up building a sort of
rather unique kind of one-day work trial
process. And you know, we doubled down
on the sort of culture when they joined
as well. So we do
you know, really in-depth team
retros and discussions,
retreats as well. I think for me like I
think the main thing would be like
how how do we you know, the landscape
within AI is shifting so much. How do we
you know,
you know, adapt on the fly to different
workflows, to different trends we're
seeing, you know, of course like new
tools, new models, things like that. And
then but at the same time also looking
ahead is like you know, what is the what
is the actual problem we're trying to
solve rather than you know,
uh
creating a solution trying to fit a
problem into it kind of the the opposite
way around. And you know, making sure
you know, the whole team is aligned on
the direction that we're going and is
like, you know, is very, very excited
about it. And then I think like
secondary is like, you know, learning
how to
sell as an engineer.
You know, how do I What's a POC? What's
a pilot? What's the difference? You
know, what are the things I should say
on these sales calls and I, you know, I
think like over the past 2 years, I'm
still a a new seller, but I think I've
I've gone gone a decent amount better
at, you know, selling and pitching and,
you know, solving customer
>> pain. What's your best advice to
engineers who are sort of where you were
a couple of years ago starting out? Need
to learn to sell. Like, what's the
What's your best advice?
>> Yeah, uh
you just have to do it. You know, you're
you're you're you you have to be
comfortable with that, you know, I I I I
I think I think about it as like you
have different cohorts and every cohort
you're going to burn and they'll some of
them will probably never come back, but
this is great learning experience for
you and uh you know, as, you know, to
learn and evolve in your, you know, your
sales process, how you talk to
customers, how you solve, how you
communicate, how your your product
solves their their problems. Um but I
think the end of the day is just, you
know, you have to get your reps in. You
can't learn just by watching someone
else sell, you know, cuz everyone has a
their own unique way of communicating
and and selling and chatting with
customers and you just have to get the
reps reps in.
What keeps you both motivated to want to
keep working on this problem and and
build this into the huge company um
uh
yeah, through the inevitable challenges
you have?
Uh I think a lot about the impact that
we could have if we fully solve the
problem of code validation. Like, I
think
a lot of product development, feature
development is is blocked on how fast
you can verify code right now. Uh and
so, like, I think about like the global
kind of productivity improvement uh that
we can make uh you know, if we change
this like very fundamental aspect of how
software engineering works. It's like a
fairly I guess like utilitarian mindset
almost. But as someone who's like always
been really passionate about DevEx, it
feels incredibly sort of force
multiplying to be able to
you know, like make everyone else around
you you know, be able to deliver higher
quality products with fewer bugs. For
me, there is you know, Momentic is
disrupting like a massive industry. You
know, the QA industry is massive, but
that's not actually not the market we're
specifically targeting. We're targeting
all software. Every software that's ever
going to be built now and in the future
will need to be verified. And how do you
do that? It's going to be with Momentic.
And then I think like secondary is like
I just I I want to win, but not just
win. I want to kill all of our
competitors. Like we will win and
destroy them all. Like it it it is
inevitable. We will make that happen.
Nice.
All right. Well, on that note, so we
have time
>> [laughter]
>> Well, we have time for today. Um
Congrats so much
on the round and I'm really excited to
see where you guys take things and um
looking forward to seeing Momentic
continue to grow this year and the years
beyond. Yeah. Thank Thank you for having
us, Harsh. Cool.
>> [music]