Title: HappyRobot: Automating the Work That Moves the World
Video ID: W_UgM6iT7Do
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_UgM6iT7Do
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-09-03T14:19:17Z
Duration: PT27M54S
Views: 9542
Likes: 203
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 798

Description:
HappyRobot is building the digital workforce for the real world — AI agents that power the operations behind global companies like DHL, Uber Freight, and Flexport. Less than a year after their Series A, they’ve grown revenue 10x and just raised a $44M Series B.

In this interview with YC General Partner Diana Hu, the founders share their journey from an early YC pivot to reinventing logistics, why voice was the hardest problem worth solving, and how they’re automating the invisible work that kee

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
So, I'm excited here to welcome Happy
Robot announcing their series B for $44
million, which is really impressive. You
guys just raised your series A not too
long ago, less than a year. You grew 10x
in revenue within the last year, less
than a year. And you were in the batch
not too long ago in summer 23.
>> Yeah. So tell us what Happy Robot is.
>> Yeah, thank you so much Dana. Happy
Robot is building the digital workforce
or real world operations companies like
uh DHL uh Uber freight flex they use our
AI agents to automate a lot of their
communications and workflows. So let's
say uh on the context of um freight
brokers which is this intermediary
between uh shipping companies people
that are shipping things um and carriers
companies that have assets that move the
things there's this intermediary called
a freight broker which basically
receives a lot of phone calls uh from
drivers asking for a load. So let's say
I'm a driver calling in on a load I see
posted online.
>> Okay,
>> an AI agent is going to pick up as the
freight broker here. Happy robot. How
can I help?
>> Hey, what's up, man? Uh, looking at this
load I saw online. Want to see if it's
still available.
>> Sure thing. Do you see a reference
number on that posting?
>> Yeah, I think it's going to be 901
347.
I just made it up. I don't think it's
going to find anything.
>> My MC number is 234567.
And it's basically gonna find if I'm on
that list.
>> We're gonna see if I'm a registered
carrier.
>> You're with Happy Robot Transportation,
right?
>> Yep. Yeah, that's us. you found us.
Thank you. Actually, you know what? I'm
actually in the middle of something, so
I'll call you back later. Okay.
>> All right. No problem. Feel free to call
back when you're ready. Have a good one.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> I love that it has a lot of the natural
kind of speech and even a bit of
background noise so it sounds real
because if it's too clean, there's this
thing where it's like, ooh, it's like
too clinical and robotic.
>> 100%.
>> That's really cool.
>> So, take us to the beginning. So, this
sounds really cool. Now you are you grew
over 10x just within 12 months which is
incredible. I remember you you had just
done your series A last year and then
you started closing these big contracts
with
>> big logos like DHL. Take us to the
beginning. How did you all three start
this company and met? Because you both
were at your PhD programs in computer
vision.
>> You want to tell the story how we met?
>> Not entirely the PhD. I was I was highly
technical. So we met in in Spain in
Madrid like 12 years ago literally
second day of university. We always tell
the story like we sat together and I
asked for a pen and and and pencil and
and paper and then Paulo was here. So we
got together and we started working on
uh a million things like robotics
association together on a on a on a few
startups and fast forward like 2022 we
got together again to like start
something. We were tinkering. You were
doing the PhD in Munich thinking out
what's next for you. I was uh pretty
much done with paper writing as much as
I was having a lot of fun during the
PhD. I was learning a lot a lot really
uh during that time. Thanks to Javi
really who actually put me on the path
of like AI and and research really when
when AI was not really a thing. I was
going to end up in like energy. Jav kind
of saved me from that.
>> Yeah, I'm the older brother uh of Pablo
and um I did economics and law. Very
boring. I don't recommend it. during
economics, I uh really dig uh very deep
into econometrics and that was very
close to AI already machine learning and
I told Pablo like hey maybe it's late
for me it wasn't really but I was
already in my career path uh to be a CFO
and whatnot. I told him like this is the
next thing. forget about energy which in
hindsight energy is going to be very
interesting thing but um yeah
>> long story short I drop out of the PhD
tell Luis to come to Germany we start
working together on some computer vision
stuff uh Kav is supporting us from from
the US he was already here in the US and
uh at some point we applied to YC uh get
rejected on the interview the first time
we reapply uh we had that one with with
you Diana and uh after a few uh chats we
get into IC
Uh and that summer of summer 23 that
batch of 2023 it was real
transformational for us because we went
into the batch with with a little bit of
revenue. We already had 70k in ARR and
every one of those peers of of our peers
were basically like oh
>> you guys are killing me.
>> You guys are killing it. We're like oh
wow like I guess we are. Like at some
point we realized after the batch we
were not and we hadn't really found
anything um worth tackling. We had like
a few customers but nothing more. And
then right on demo day uh we woke up
that that morning obviously came from
before but that morning we wake up and
we're like okay yeah we we were pivoting
and like I remember slapping.
>> So that transition uh that took us to to
what we're building today these AI
agents for uh very messy industries and
and very comp complex industries like
supply chain and logistics. Uh we can
dive deeper into it but that was a bit
of the story.
>> Tell us a bit about that. That's very
jarring. So you went from feeling uh top
of the world because you had some
revenue because a lot of the companies
we accept over 60 70% are pre-revenue
and you had revenue and then you decided
to give that up all away and on demo day
you're supposed to present we're giving
up on this idea things aren't working.
What what about that that previous idea
because you already had some inkling
during the batch. I remember doing a lot
of office hours with you guys and you
couldn't see how you could build a large
company with that one.
>> No, YC helped us understand who our ICP
was. Who were we selling to? I remember
chatting about like okay who's your
customer? Like there's this this this
like can you get a working business by
only focusing on one and we started like
crossing them out and at some point we
realized okay there's there's not a
business here like who is our customer?
So it was selective in that we decided
to focus on what are we doing and we
started like realizing there wasn't like
a big enough market for us. So Wise was
very very helpful in understanding who
who are we serving really.
>> And for context maybe we were building a
a computer vision platform like an
autoleabeling platform for computer
vision companies that were using
computer vision robotics companies. We
tried self-driving car companies like we
tal tried to talk to cruise at the time
and he was like no we build that
internally. It was a lot of build versus
buy. Uh and then we ended up going for
uh satellite imagery. We realized that
it was a lot of government.
>> Yeah. 80% of the satellite imagery is
consumed by government. So we thought
like this is going to move very slow.
>> Which was the case. I remember um
>> talking with you guys trying to close
these large government contracts and
took forever.
>> I remember talking to this agency.
They're like, "Oh, this is great. Let's
talk in six months from now." We're
like, "Are you kidding? Like we might as
well be dead in six months from now."
But then we we pivoted on around
September 2023. Went into a little bit
of a pivot hell during those two months.
We tried to tap into what we knew, what
what experience we had. Luis really
wanted to dive into into voice. I wanted
to really see what LLMs were doing. And
at the time, I think it was right about
the time where 3.5 GP 3.5 was coming
out. And then Kavi came from uh
logistics and supply chain. He was the
CFO as he said before of the biggest
olive oil distributor.
>> Yeah, you guys put together an amazing
tool and it was a developer tool. Uh but
I was like my thesis was like why don't
we go to surf a vertical uh because in
the long run this is going to get
commoditized. Uh so we build products uh
for a vertical that we understand very
deeply and that's the one I knew
>> which was very interesting to me because
I remember chatting with you guys and
the way the way you went about you went
through different verticals and you
attended different conferences in
different industries until you stumbled
onto the one that worked and you guys
didn't know anything about this
industry. I mean of course now you guys
are experts. tell us about um that
conference that you went that made you
land into the idea that Happy Robot is
today.
>> Yeah, I mean I I can say I knew it as a
customer of our customers like because I
was uh working in a manufacturer, a
shipper which is the ultimate customer
of any logistics company. That was the
insight right um I suffer the fines of
retailers for delivering late uh on time
and in full. that is their main KPI and
that is where this ordeal of
orchestration comes to play and where
these logistics players have hundreds of
people in call center uh just just
trying to find capacity to deliver on
time uh this truckload to Walmart the
next day but as you're saying like we
went to these conferences to explore and
this is the industry where everybody
told me I had a working demo already on
the phone like pretty decent
>> the first two months we put together
like a like Louis put together a demo
And they were
>> like seven seconds of latency, you know,
like hello seven seconds later like hi.
>> Yeah. And yet they told me look I have
200 people 500 people in a call center.
Not to say that their own employees in
America in in the US they also do that
but they have outsourced already so much
and they were like I can give you that
tomorrow if this works.
>> Oh and it was very simple level of work.
It was just people in call centers
calling truckers or delivery or or any
capacity for for logistics to check if
they were available. That's it.
>> Funnily enough, the use case we started
with was actually more complex than
that. We started saying, "Hey, Javi
knows that these freight brokers, which
ultimately was our first vertical. Today
we serve um freight forwarders, ocean
carriers, um trucking companies, but
initially we really focused on these
freight brokers, which ultimately is an
intermediary between someone that is
shipping something uh that olive oil
company that Kav used to work for and uh
someone that has assets to move things,
a trucking company, uh a boat, a plane.
So we were targeting these freight
brokers with whom Kavi had like worked
with or uh kind of uh uh dealt with. uh
they were like the ones uh maybe missing
some of the deliveries for him and
things like that. So he knew that
existed. So we we said, "Okay, like
there's this check call like this call
that someone in a call center is doing
to a driver to see if they're actually
going to deliver on time." We're like,
"Okay, this is really easy." No, like we
should definitely start with that one.
That's the easy one. Hey, Mr. Driver,
are you gonna be on time?
>> Yes. No. Why not? What time? sounds
stupid that that call happens, but the
reality is that as much as um the
industry has a lot of GPS and a lot of
uh these this digital tracking, if you
will, um it's not as obvious as saying,
"Oh, I see uh Pete the driver in Dallas.
Now, what like why is he stopped? Like
why is he not moving or like what is
going on?" Uh so that's why there's
these phone calls. So we to to answer
your your your question Diana like we
started with these uh check calls in
mind and then we go to these customers
these freight brokers. I'll tell a story
about how I met our first customer and
we tell them hey let's do check calls
and they're like no no no no no let's
actually do a sales negotiation. Let's
actually negotiate rates on loads. So we
went for like the harder use case which
took us a little bit of of time to to
develop. uh we actually ended up uh
fine-tuning uh llama tool and mistril
>> like the the problem was clear like the
pain was clear like the idea market fit
if you will if you will was clear the
product was not clear like customers
wanted this but they didn't know the
technology was there so we were like
super focused on this specific use case
which is one of the beauties of like
being verticalized is that we could put
all our efforts in like training the
best voice AI or building the best voice
AI for this specific use case like
negotiating calls so we're find like GPD
3.5 back then was kind of fast, but it
was pretty stupid. Like you couldn't put
them on a phone. Like it wasn't reliable
for like a business, like a real
production ready operation. GPD4 was
very slow. Like it was decent for a for
a demo, but it was like 7 seconds of
answering and it wasn't production
ready. So we went full-on fine-tuning
like Lama or Mistral back then, which
again speaks to how we approached
building the company and that it was
clearly not a long-term advantage. like
we knew something else was coming like
EP5 or 4 whatever it is there was
something coming but doing those
short-term um advantages kept us ahead
of the curve a little bit and showing
that we're a technology company and we
can get uh this built
>> I think that was part of the impressive
thing we've seen with successful
vertical AI agents is doing this
playbook that AI might not be 100% there
but you meet you fill in the gaps and
eventually we'll get there and you have
to kind of bootstrap it and fine-tune a
customer model and that got you to close
that first customer, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. When I go to one of these
conferences, someone tells me about a
Discord channel where the nerdiest
people in logistics uh will have their
conversations and and I told Pablo still
I am at the conference, hey, get into
this channel. And you got into the
channel, you know better the story.
>> I end up in this Discord ser discord
server and I pitch the thing. I do a
demo call and they're like, "Holy shit."
Like that's super cool. And then next
day, next morning I have like an email
from a couple of guys. Turns out those
two guys, one was like the sales
director at the 10th largest freight
broker in the US and the other one was
like the 30th largest. So like I we end
up uh piloting with them. I guess that
speaks to the power of conferences in
person like seeing like those people in
person like anything vertical there's
always somewhere where like these people
are meeting. Uh, and if you can like
engage with those guys at at that level,
at that enterprise level as well, that
was really an an unlock for us versus
just being at home and just like coding
things without talking to people.
>> And one of the things is that that was
just the foot in the door for you guys
with the voice agent and that first
workflow for negotiating contracts.
Eventually, you started growing a lot
more use cases and workflows. So then
you weren't just one one of the things
that people might be concerned is you're
just building a wrapper on top of a lot
of the AI models, but that's not the
case. You built a lot of very custom
workflows that now going from your
series A to your B, you've grown to
closing seven figure contracts that
might have started at like five figures.
So tell us about that progression.
>> 100%. He did start at that five figure
uh number which we felt pretty good at
at the beginning like oh wow like we're
closing a I don't know like a 30k deal.
Wow great we felt really good. Uh and
the reality is that was our landing know
like that land and expand motion that
we're seeing in a lot of uh uh AI agent
companies. Uh that is really what
analoged our growth just getting our
foot in the door working with these
people them seeing us as their AI
partner. They truly see us as a trusted
partner with whom they can build agents
and in this case like transform their
workforce and first use case with
company X was this carrier sales
negotiation but then it's like oh I
actually now want to do that check call
that we were talking about before and I
also want to like collect uh payments
and I also want to collect documents.
>> Voice is just one modality but the
customer really wants to get job done
like they don't really care if it's
through phone or through email like
there's also email carrier sales. So we
then we got into like there's more than
voice. Like customers don't really care
what it is. They just want to move
freight in our case. So we got into like
those text workflows as well, which
arguably was easier. We we started with
like the arguably the hard part of the
voice. Putting the the LLM to like
answer an email was arguably the the the
easy part, but that was something
natural like voice. They wanted like a
holistic solution, not only like a point
voice solution. voice is the easiest one
to demo and and for people the wow
effect is is crazy and also the workflow
is very straightforward. They have call
centers just doing phone calls. For
other workflows is more convoluted
within within the customer and you have
to like panty approach. You put an FDE
and they just get to know everything and
it's a longer term product that you
build. But the voice one is very clear.
No, like you're replacing 20 people in a
call center in this country. And and
that's also to the expansion point. It's
like such a clear ROI. You don't have to
justify anything to the CFO. It's like,
okay, that's great. And by the way, it's
more robust typically uh the AI than
than other
>> than the humans.
>> Yeah.
>> It's more consistent. Like actually
customers really appreciated that,
right? Like they they said, "Hey, my
team, they don't want to be doing this
job." First of all,
>> second, if they do it,
>> they're going to do it wrong because
they'll not follow the script that I
gave them. And I really want to want
them to follow the script. I always want
to ask for a shipment number before I
ask for the motor carrier number
whatever like this is like some
terminology from the industry but like
they really want that that process to be
done that way and it's not only about
the
how you carry the phone call or the
email or whatever workflow it's actually
about the data that you're extracting.
Mhm.
>> So after that call is done, that email
is exchange is done. You're in in in
front of a lot of data they're uh never
seen you you've never seen before as a
customer. They've never been able to
capture that data from their team
because Luis gets picks up a call,
negotiates a rate with a with a driver
and maybe that doesn't end up in a in a
sale. No, maybe like that is just like
some exchange they had there, but like
they don't end up working together.
Broker, freight broker and trucking
company, but like we should be writing
down that option, that offer on some
system and reps like the representatives
in those companies, they have better
things to do. Uh, so they just don't do
that. But that's data that they're
they've been not capturing traditionally
and that was a huge analog as well for
them. YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> The really cool thing about you guys,
you've been building a lot and really
keeping at the state-of-the-art. So,
back in 2023, you were fine-tuning open
source models or just building off of
3.5 GPT. And now fast forward, you're
basically becoming a system of record,
right, for all these logistic companies.
And you started to build more complex
tech around custom memory and you're
even doing reasoning models. Tell us
about those. What are the some of the
cool things around that that was at the
bleeding edge?
>> It's fascinating. Like voice per se is
hard. There's a lot of challenges uh
today in like back then the problem was
most of the time latency was too high.
But now the industry went too far and
now the bots are like interrupting too
much. So there's like a sweet spot in in
real time voice where you cannot be too
slow but you can also not be too too
fast. So there's all this end of turn
and understanding of the conversation
like humans when I'm talking you're like
reasoning while I'm think like while
while I'm talking and if I make a brief
pause that you understand that I'm not
done. So that's something that
traditionally voice uh companies we have
not done because traditionally like the
the agent is kind of sleeping while
while the the person is talking the
agent is kind of sleeping and then once
the person stop talking it starts
thinking like super fast and trying to
answer as quick as possible. So there's
a lot of reasoning mid call that the
body is doing using different models
depending on the difficulty of the
conversation the memory part like we're
automating work across a lot of
thousands of agents at the same time. So
there's a lot of knowledge that they can
share live and there's an example for
example when negotiating calls like
there's carriers calling in the broker
and there's 10 concurrent calls for the
same load typically humans would not be
able to like say hey I have a very very
interesting carrier maybe drop the price
negotiate harder this this load is very
hot the agents can sync all the data
real time and kind of say hey I'm
getting a lot of interest you want to
book it for less I mean this is the best
I can do I have another offer right now
all that sharing real time of
information and that memory that we we
create was not possible before. So it's
a bit of that data unlock that we
provide the customer not only automating
the work per se but also providing
visibility into what's going on.
>> So what are some of the interesting tech
that you have invented that um maybe
that you can share?
>> Yeah.
>> That is really at the bleeding edge that
not even the AI labs are doing and you
have only been able to do so because
you've gone deep into this vertical use
case and this is one of the reasons why
you're the best solution.
>> No, thank you. Um I think end of turn is
something that is not widely spoken like
we always think about voicing like
transcriber LLM um text generation but
we kind of knew that models were going
to get faster like it was matter of time
that the the models were going to be
fast so that understanding of the
conversation um pace and when interrupt
when not to in especially in voice over
phone it's also hard to know when the
other person is engaged. So humans
typically like back channel or you say
something and I've tried other systems
that whenever you say something the bot
stops because it thinks you want to
talk. So that understanding of the
conversation, that interruption handling
is extremely important. And when you get
all the other pieces right, this is
typically what fails. Like you can have
a very natural conversation, but if it's
constantly like stopping whenever it
listens to like a background noise or
someone is talking in, I don't know,
there's a side conversation and the
body's answering someone else, that's
something that is hard per se because
it's it's it's a hard problem that you
need a lot of like audio understanding.
So that interruption handling is
something we've we've worked a lot and I
think we're we're good at it. I I think
something that
we unlock is that we're now automating
work for this company. Like we're
automating the the phone calls, the
emails, the text, like literally
enhancing or replacing if you will those
human labor that are doing repetitive
tasks. This is unlocking a lot of data.
we were talking like those that memory
piece those conversations are now
creating this system of record you said
like now there's external data sources
and there's data that the agents are
generating what we're thinking is
putting what we call frontal which is
like a bigger super intelligence on top
who is not doing the phone calls per se
is literally just looking at the data
and being proactive in like telling the
the human insights teaching the
workflows how to behave better. So now
you have this manager that's looking at
every single phone call and it's
teaching a day, hey you should maybe
negotiate harder or you should call uh
this carrier because they don't want to
be text like you're now holistically
looking at the things. So there's this
like reasoning agent 24/7 looking at the
data and providing insights and teaching
the rest of the system. I I think
another way to see it is we've built the
agentic workflows. That's the foundation
and it pretty much looks like a bunch of
notes like no code tool like a Zapier
looking tool just connecting notes to
each other having like a a prompt and a
set of tools. That's what we've called
agentic workflows. We have a layer on
top which is the AI worker. That's the
entity that is now looking at the
workflows that it has available that it
can use. For example, we have this one
customer in the manufacturing space.
Their team of 300 um buyers or
procurement managers are just looking
every day at an ERP seeing like what
order is going to be late and they have
to reason about hm I think this order is
going to be late. I should maybe send an
email to the supplier to make sure that
that order is going to arrive on time.
The next morning they wake up and see
that no one has replied. Okay, I I now
have to make a phone call. So we can the
way we think about it is that email
workflow that that is that is a workflow
that email communication is a workflow
that a phone call is another workflow.
There's an entity on top that AI worker
that is reasoning about when to use one
workflow or the other. It's almost like
it has capabilities. That AI worker has
capabilities planning and orchestrating
everything. It's not doing the phone
calls. just like understanding the
problem and scheduling different parts
to like do work in the outside world and
then getting the results and think about
them.
>> So you have multiple agents and you have
the manager agent. That's that's cool.
So
>> I think a lot of what you're building is
really cool making a lot of these
logistic companies more efficient, not
needing as large of a operation with
call centers. On the flip side, there
might be a lot of um sentiment from the
public that a lot of jobs are getting
taken away. How do you tend to think
about that?
>> This is a little bit of that um AI will
not replace you, but like a human using
AI will. And this is really true. We're
seeing in our customers how their
representatives are actually more
efficient. Uh some of the
representatives in these freight
brokers, which is one of those verticals
that we tackle, are booking more
freight, more loads, uh 25% to 30% more
loads per day, uh which actually gives
them more money because they get
commission on those loads. So now they
see it as a as um as a tool right as a
as an opportunity to grow more than a
thread really
>> which I think is what we're seeing with
a lot of AI startups is this case where
it's not that is uh replacing humans it
is freeing up humans to do higher level
task and like this company didn't
necessarily let anyone go at all on the
contrary all those former uh employees
are doing even better tasks and even
more fun tasks and the company's
becoming more efficient
>> 100% That's awesome. What are you
excited about the future? Where does
Happy Robot go from now?
>> We started really narrow with uh
vertical of freight brokers. After that,
we said, "Hey, we're actually not like
automating the work of these freight
brokers only. We're actually automating
the work in a industry that is much
bigger. We're automating all of the
non-physical labor uh that kind of keeps
goods moving around the world, people
moving around the world, services. We're
now working with some of the largest uh
uh energy suppliers in in the in the
world. So there's someone setting up an
appointment. There's someone like uh
making sure that that appointment is is
set at the right time. There's
operations. Uh we were at the keynote in
Zamzara uh the one of the largest uh
fleet management software companies out
there and they serve these industry of
of physical operations. The way we we
see our agents is they're automating the
work that is needed to keep physical
operations going. So that is really what
is exciting us a lot. No, like we're
actually automating the work that keeps
a lot of the a lot of the work in the
world moving.
>> And you guys are hiring.
>> We're hiring a lot. Yeah.
>> A lot of engineers. Full stack.
Yeah. Yeah. Like in every one of those
steps like the agent part, how do we get
the bot to do better at the phone calls
at the memory piece that worker that
needs to like plan and schedule and
orchestrate the thing the higher level
intelligence of there's a lot of in the
text that that we're we're like we're
building ourselves like we're an AI
company. We have an AI road map and
that's something our customers
appreciate that they want to partner
with someone that's really pushing the
frontier of of what's possible. So we're
hiring um a lot of engineers as well
>> for deploy engineers as well. We haven't
talked about that but we're hiring a lot
of uh of that concept that Palanteer
brought like that forward deployed
engineer that customer engineer almost
that uh person that is technically savvy
but also like enjoys the work with
customers hiring hiring a lot on that
front as well.
>> All right well congratulations guys on
your series B.
>> Thank you so much.
[Music]