Title: Motion: Redefining How Work Gets Done
Video ID: wbeHAVonbmw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbeHAVonbmw
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-09-09T15:01:48Z
Duration: PT17M49S
Views: 3960
Likes: 96
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 506

Description:
Motion began with a simple idea: help people manage their time better. After several pivots, the founders have built one of the fastest-growing work platforms, recently closing their Series B and C at a $550M valuation. Today, Motion is redefining how work gets done — not just managing projects, but embedding AI employees directly into the workflow.

In this interview with YC General Partner Aaron Epstein, the founders share how they gave up seven-figure trading jobs to start from scratch, why t

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
I'm excited to welcome uh the Motion
team here. They're fresh off the news of
closing their series B and series C at a
$550 million valuation. Teams been on
fire. So, welcome Motion. Thank you for
joining. First, maybe why don't you give
everybody an idea of what Motion does?
>> We build work management software for
small and mediumsiz businesses. Uh most
of them in the middle of America. Think
about like construction companies,
marketing agencies, design agencies,
lots of services kind of businesses, law
firms, etc. And we do like team project
management, knowledge management,
documents, wikis. We're kind of this
all-in-one work suite for them uh that
they can come to basically for all of
their work management needs. And what's
very exciting over the last year is we
have been building agents for them such
that we're not just managing their work,
but we're actually doing work for them.
>> It didn't start like that though. So
take us back to the early days and and
maybe first how you guys first got
connected and even decided that you
wanted to work on a startup together.
>> Maybe a little bit about how we got
connected. Omi and I were high school
friends. So we did um high school math
olympiad. We were both I actually think
and I were the first two kids uh in our
school's third year history to ever make
it to USA math olympiad. Uh we both
scored a 14 on it. And then you know
Ethan was um one of my best friend from
college. Uh we went to school together.
that we both studied computer science
and um and yeah and that's that's how we
met.
>> So you knew each other uh early on in
life from high school days and college
days. At what point did you decide that
you guys should all start a company
together?
>> We were kind of just talking and um Omi
and I were catching up. Omi was actually
trying to apply for a quantum trading
job and Ethan and I we we were both
quantum traders uh after college you
know just like a lot of uh my friends
back in high school did math Olympias
like you know just like go to trading
jobs right was actually asking for my
help on how to get into um trading and I
was like hey why don't we just do this
startup thing together and you know
that's uh that's that's how it came
about
>> that's almost an unusual move because
you guys were making a lot of money at
the were you not
>> like talk a little bit about what you
actually had to sacrifice and give up in
order to start this company. I mean as
like 21 22 year olds sometimes you're
making like you know seven figures which
is a lot of money right like none of us
came from a very rich background
definitely in the beginning like we
Harry and I we were both traders
straight out of college and I think in
the beginning uh it satisfies this like
competitive itch like it's very
intellectually stimulating you're
competing with other traders in the
market and it's like pretty fun but
after having done it for a couple of
years uh at least for me personally I
was it was pretty clear like this wasn't
something I was passionate about. It was
something I would like put in the hours
and then after work I would turn my
brain off and not want to think about it
anymore because there wasn't really any
purpose to what I was doing. Every day
it was like we're going to try to make
money. Okay, tomorrow is a new day.
We're going to try to make more money
and we're going to try to make more
money. But like there wasn't like
something that like we were building
that was like compounding that like we
could say like we are building this
endeavor that uh so basically around the
same time 2019 I was talking to Harry
about it and he was thinking about
starting the company. I was at the same
time looking for my next uh potential
career move.
>> Talk about what that conversation was
like. I mean, you both had to give up
seven figure salaries to go back to zero
with a startup to start a startup nobody
had ever heard of, you know, like what
was that conversation and
decision-making process like for both of
you?
>> We we actually got into YC I think
around July of 2019. We end up delaying
the batch until the the winter, but we
basically had to quit our jobs in
August. If you know how trading works,
you don't get any bonus until the
following year. Even if you quit like
you know like in August of the year you
are basically forfeiting like a month of
salary which is like of bonus which is
like you know something close to a
million dollars. But yeah my parents
definitely thought it was crazy.
Definitely heavily recommended against
it. They were like oh yeah you should
accumulate 5 to 10 years of wealth
before you do any kind of this stuff.
But I'm a big risk taker. I I I think we
all believe in ourselves. So I think we
take huge risk huge reward right that
comes from trading too. So yeah, decided
to take a very big risk on ourselves.
>> I had a similar story with my parents.
Not only was I giving up the finance
job, I was also sitting on a offer to go
to Stanford Business School. And so they
wanted me to either do the finance job
or get my MBA. And that's like very
traditional uh like I guess like Asian
Asian parent uh mentality. But I really
wanted to bet on myself and like I knew
even like even though there was like a
short-term loss like really betting on
myself and uh seeing where how far I can
push this new entrepreneurship could uh
win out in the long run.
>> Yeah, I love that. I mean you guys went
from a day job that you weren't excited
about but was all about making bets and
taking risk and stuff and you just
decided to bet on yourselves and
hopefully your parents are are happy
with it now.
Yeah, I am.
>> Think think you made the right call.
>> YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> Talk about uh the early days. So, you
guys applied to IC, you got in. Um talk
about like going through the batch and
and how you kind of evolved throughout
um that process. Yeah. So we initially
got into YC with a completely different
idea. It was like you know in sports
betting and um we will soon realize
there's a lot of regulations a lot of
that. We uh started pivoting YC helped a
lot with that. You know both you and
Michael our group partners help a lot
with that process. And uh during YC
itself we basically built like a
calendaring application um that you know
like helps you track your time and help
you like basically manage your time. And
we kept building more and more on top of
that. The moment we found um you know
the earliest prom market fit, the B1
prom market fit one when we built this
thing that would basically just like
automatically schedule your entire
calendar for you back then. It sounds
like a pretty crazy like who who would
ever want a machine to like you know
schedule your time for you, right? And
quite a few people do and I did for
myself, right? And basically the moment
we launched that uh like we were at like
very close to zero revenue for a while
and as soon as we launched that you know
like uh automatic smart AI calendaring
um it jumped to like a million AR very
quickly in like you know two months and
then that went on for like you know one
to two years uh we got to you know 10 15
million of AR um I think we got close to
20 million of AR uh with that and then
what happened is you know like we we we
had a office hour with uh with Michael
And that was an interesting office hour
because we were like, hey, we're
building this like, you know, like
consumer proumer product. It's like
growing pretty well. Um, you know, you
got to like, you know, 15 20 million of
AR, which is pretty good, right? Medical
is basically like, yeah, you guys are
 And the reason for that is
basically
like you can become a very profitable 20
million a year probably making like if
you stop growing like 5 to 10 million a
year business but you are never going to
make a billion of AR and there's a lot
of reasons for that you know like uh uh
this kind of product is generally not a
must have for consumers or consumers
generally these kind of productivity
tools a lot of them uh are you know nice
to haves so uh that means like retention
sometimes not great uh you never see
like you know anything close to the 100%
% dollar retention you see on B2B
products and we were very much building
a very nice to have but I think there
were very few users who was like oh this
is absolutely a must have right um it's
like their their life their business
they don't absolutely depend on it and
basically that's when we realized hey if
we truly want to build like a billion
revenue business this is not it and I
think that was a tough moment and we had
to figure out okay you know what do we
do now we started getting a lot of
interest on integrating with like you
know a Monday or a Jira or like a sauna
or a Trello we look at these platforms
and we're like they're not that good and
we can build a much better version of
them knowing what we already know about
you know time management and you know
like uh uh uh like team productivity and
we have we have accumulated a couple
years of expertise in this area let's go
build the best work management tool for
SMBs and midm market which is you know a
lot of where a lot of our consumers came
from. So we basically talked to a bunch
of them, figured out their pain points,
our own painoint using these tools and
we just pivoted from consumer proumer to
you know like B2B and that was pretty
hard because building a B2B product for
businesses to trust you like you need to
build a lot of feature parity stuff and
not only do you need to be build feature
parody you have to build like what is
your unique value proposition that makes
yourself 10 times better than
alternatives in a single dimension. So
how to do that as well and that is our
main business going forward. I I think
what's so interesting about that is you
know you pivoted you found something
that worked you grew it to 15 20 million
ARR many people would be thrilled at
that and you looked at the future that
you wanted to build this you know
multi-billion dollar company and
recognized that this was not actually
going to be the thing that got you there
and you made a really difficult decision
that we can't continue to fully focus on
this thing. We got to find the next
thing that's going to get us from the
15, 20 million to 100, 200, 500 million
ARR. And that involves starting over
from scratch in some ways. Like maybe
you can reuse parts of the product, but
you have to go find a totally different
customer type. Talk about like your
thought process behind that. I see some
people that get to that position, they
have that same epiphany and they go, "Oh
no, like I'm stuck. I don't want to go
back and like spin up a new thing from
scratch with a new customer type and a
new go to market motion. Maybe I should
just find an acquirer and get out while
I can kind of thing. But you guys were
down for the journey again to keep going
and push to that much larger exit. What
was your thought process as you were
going through that?
>> I think we really just want to build a
lasting business and I think at the end
of the day like it's just this team
really wanted to win.
>> Where does that come from for each of
you? your like desire to win, you know,
I can see it in in the arc of your
stories, you know, doing um the
competitions at an earlier age and you
know, giving up money because you want
to win and go for the bigger prize.
Where's the motivation come from for
each of you for that?
>> Yeah, so I think for me um I think it
was part of being a first generation
immigrant to the United States. I came
here when I was really young and had to
uh learn the language like assimilate
myself and I didn't come from like
really wealthy family or anything and
had to prove myself going through like
the public school system trying to
become number one in order to graduate
at the top of my class and then try to
like get to a good school and just
making sure that the investment that my
parents made in me uh really panned out.
>> No, I I I think I I wish I had
selfreflected enough. It just feels like
uh the shame of of not of of not making
it of of of of motion not working out is
just like it's too much to bear like you
know it's the best option. It's the most
comfortable option is to actually make
things work even if that's extremely
hard. I hear that a lot from founders
which is it's not even so much about
winning sometimes it's about not losing
and you know the not giving up and yeah
that's interesting
>> for all of us there there's a there's a
giant chip on our shoulder right and I
think part of that came from actually YC
demo day we were in the winter 20 batch
it was a co batch was really hard to
fundra
>> shut down two weeks before your demo day
>> investors were scared to put money into
anything right markets were tanking yeah
that was a crazy time
>> yeah exactly so like you know We we got
rejected by hundred and around 150
investors after zoom calls like you
should have seen my investor CRM was
like o over 500 and you know got onto
calls with like around a third of them
basically got rejected by like you know
98% of them and we we were trying to
raise our seat for like three months we
ended up only raising like you know a
couple hundred grand. First of all, the
investors that invested, you know, not a
lot invested in in the early days. And I
remember being on calls with you around
demo day and like what are the magic
words I need to say to get people to
invest? And it's always so interesting
to look back at at things like this now
a few years out where things have played
out a little bit. And a couple people
took a bet on you, but most didn't. And
the ones that didn't, I'm sure
regretting it right now. And the ones
that did have to be feeling pretty good
about their like counterintuitive
investment that actually has ended up
working out here, right?
>> Yeah. So, if I'm being completely
honest, we have not won yet. Like, we're
nowhere close to winning. So, we still
got to reinvent oursself probably more
than once to in order to have a chance
of winning.
>> Yeah. You have to continue to refine
product market fit, getting bigger and
bigger and bigger along the way. What
does that look for you like for you guys
going forward? You know, you you have
mid eight figures revenue now. It's been
growing quickly. You know, you're on a
good trajectory. It feels like the
opportunity is there for you to go take
it and get to a billion plus. What does
the future look like for you?
>> Yeah, I I actually think we're in a very
lucky position because we have built a
suite of work management tools that we
are now basically building embedding AI
agents on top of them. There are a few
things here, right? Like one is we are
now not just managing work for our
customers. you know the SMBs in the
middle of America, but we're actually
doing work for them. They can create
projects and just assign some of the
tasks directly to AI like what we call
AI employees. The AI employees can't do
everything. They can do a small portion
of task now and that portion will go get
bigger and bigger each year. And what
our platform offers is a way to manage
hundreds or thousands of agents at scale
um because we're already a work
management platform. And the second
thing it offers is I don't think it
makes any sense for a company to manage
human tasks and agent tasks separate
from each other, right? Like they share
a lot of the same context. Um you know a
lot of task you got to finish the agent
task and a human has to take over. Like
it doesn't make sense for there to be
separate systems. And because we have
our work management project management
product, we can seamlessly
um you know transition from oh agent
just finished something. Okay, now human
you take over next because we have over
the years built out this human work and
project management system and we
launched that you know agentic product a
few months ago. It basically like blew a
lot of things out expectation. the
businesses who are using us like clearly
see value in that and we went from
something like you know basically zero
revenue in the agent product when we
launched like early this year to over 10
million of AR on the like you know AI
agent like product basically within a
few months and you know we're continue
to see that kind of explosive growth uh
inside you know especially our B2B
customers at this point everyone knows
that for agent to work really well
it needs access to a lot of context and
we are also in a lucky position because
we have our over the years we have built
our own entire platform our entire work
suite as well as the data for our
customers. Uh so we basically have a lot
of context about their business um you
know like uh their internal knowledge
base uh their projects their task their
like time like everything and that
enables us to basically be able to build
the best agent in the market for these
small and medium businesses we are
serving that platform and data um and
that context that is one of the biggest
reasons why our agents are performing a
lot better than you know some of the uh
maybe perhaps independent agents who
perhaps not have their uh underlying
platform or data.
>> You guys are hiring. So uh way as you're
looking for people to join the team,
what's the profile of somebody that
you're looking for?
>> I think we're looking for people who are
really driven, really passionate.
They're not looking for a 9 to5, but
they're looking for uh I guess it's the
same chip on their shoulder. They want
to prove that they have like a really
high potential and motion is the place
for them to unlock all that potential.
Maybe they've been limited in a role
before and they want to take greater and
bigger responsibilities. uh we will take
that bet on them and uh have them uh
give their hardest effort and uh see how
far they can go.
>> I think the um the ultimate determining
factor of the success of a company
starts with the founders and I think one
of my takeaways from you know talking
with you guys and hearing your story is
just how much you're driven to win. And
so I think for anybody that's looking to
join a company that's like the number
one thing they could they could look at
is how much do these founders want to
win? And I think you know that really
comes through here and how you guys are
thinking about the business and once you
get to a billion ARR which I know you
guys are going to do it that's not going
to be good enough and you're how do we
get to two how do we get to five and and
you're not going to stop. So it's been
awesome to hear your story. Thank you
guys so much for joining and uh yeah
excited for you to to announce all the
fundraisers and all the success you've
been having.
>> Yeah. Thanks for being on this journey
with us.