Video ID: X1NXnLRNIfM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1NXnLRNIfM
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 821
============================================================

[music]
>> I'm joined today by John Glasgow, CEO
and founder of Campfire.
Uh Campfire recently raised their Series
B led by Excel and Ribbit.
John,
tell me about Campfire. Well, first
Andrew, thanks for having me on today.
Campfire is the AI native ERP for our
high-growth companies and we help
finance and accounting teams automate
manual work for their accounting and
their financial reportings, whether it's
taxes or investors.
Um and when we automate it, of course uh
a lot of it's with AI, then we're able
to allow them to focus on more strategic
work.
So, I guess tell us first ERP. I don't
know if everyone's familiar with that.
What is that? Yeah, enterprise resource
planning, essentially all of the
accounting and financial reporting for a
company. So, the good thing for us is
literally everybody has taxes, they have
particularly in tech, a lot of folks
have financial reporting requirements to
investors. And so, the market's wide
because everybody actually has one. Now,
it's just a matter of which one are you
on? And so, for us there was not an
education, we just had to go out and
build something that people wanted.
Yeah, I mean, this is to me the the
classic established market, but then the
question is how do you break in? I mean,
I mean, you're going up against
NetSuite. Like,
how how did you decide to do that? Yeah,
and I vividly remember during my YC
interview,
uh of course famously it was 8 minutes
and went short and um
I was saying I want to build a modern
ERP and they uh it was it was Dalton and
Dalton was like um
literally we've yet to see somebody
that's excited about this category
because it's so old and ancient and
ready for something new, but also
credible because I was in corporate
finance for over 10 years. And so, um
yeah, it's a category I've gotten to
know well in my career, but to your
point, I think it was it was definitely
ripe for disruption. Let's talk about
that. That's the that's the um
you know, founder market fit piece
there. How did you
What about your prior experiences led
you to the space of ERPs and and
coming to the belief that now is the
time to uh to do a new one? Yeah, and
and actually like meeting after we got
into YC, that was the biggest question
investors had, which was like why now?
And so I I think a lot of it did come
down to uh
about a 10-year corporate finance career
and really spending a lot of time in the
legacy systems. And then uh our company
got acquired, so I was no longer doing
finance, I was doing partnerships. Our
largest partners were the legacy ERPs at
the company that bought us. So we spent
a lot of time as a customer and as a
partner. And initially it was like,
well, maybe I'm the only person that
thinks this is a an opportunity. And
then partnering with them, all of our
customers were saying like, "Hey,
actually this is a huge opportunity. All
of us have the same pain you did." That
it gave me the conviction to to come to
you guys and say, you know, that I'm
going to leave it all behind in the
corporate world and build something new.
But and investors were very much at demo
day, I vividly remember, very much like,
"Why now? This is like a very
established market, mission-critical
software for the customers. Um and so
how do you like what's the catalyst?"
And so I spent a lot of time on on that
mentally before I went and made the
leap. What What were some of the What
were some of the things that you you
decided like how how you were going to
you know, sometimes we say wedge into
the space? Sure. Yeah. It It's a great
question because as you know, in YC,
you've got a couple months to build a
working prototype and show revenue and
success. And there is some other folks
that had been in uh trying to tackle
this problem in a very long stealth
periods. Mhm. But if you know, YC was
very much like "You got 3 months, ship
something, get revenue, get paying
customers." So we very quickly actually
um
some other YC companies from prior
batches saw this as a pain that we had
reached out to and given my finance
background just built the full version
of the verse first version in Google
sheets and we put it into a login and
had a Brex and Mercury feeds kind of in
one tab and then I just did a bunch of
formulas and spreadsheets and the very
first paying version was less than a
month after we started YC. So it's a
very it was very much like the YC mantra
of just like getting things out and then
rapidly get customer feedback and I
think that allowed us to very quickly
build something people want. You know, I
think I still have my shirt that says
build something people want and
yeah, it's still a mantra we very much
have today at Campfire. So that's
interesting. I didn't know that. So your
your prototype, the first version of the
product that you got into people's hands
was in fact almost
I'm going to say mock up although I get
that it was usable in Google sheets. It
wasn't even like software software.
Yeah, I mean it was still on the
internet in the browser but we had like
iframe the Google sheet into the
browser. So it's very very rudimentary
but you know, what you know, or YC it's
like how quickly can you get paying
customers? We don't want free and so we
very quickly got some people paying for
that that rudimentary version and just
continue to build. Yeah, interesting.
You know, I I remember um
you know, one one thing that that people
struggle with is like okay, in these
like classic enterprise categories like
you know, ERP, CRM,
um HRIS like you need to be pretty or
what they'll say is that hey, you need
to be pretty feature complete before you
can actually disrupt anything. But I
look at you guys and you know, I number
one, I think you cranked out a lot of
software very quickly but number two,
you know, you were able to displace
uh those those products. Um did you did
you have to be feature complete before
you were or or how how How you able to
do that? Yeah, I think there's a miss
like yes, the incumbents are incredibly
deep and broad and the feature and
functionality, but within our initial
market
of tech companies, they're actually not
using a lot of NetSuite. Yeah. They're
actually most of the of NetSuite they're
actually not using.
>> Interesting. So we very narrowly focus
on a certain segment which was like tech
companies that had outgrown QuickBooks.
>> Yep. That needed something more powerful
or more mature for certain specific
features that cause them to move to
NetSuite and we just solve for those
specific things. So like approval
workflows doesn't sound sexy at all, but
it's a key reason that folks need it for
audit and QuickBooks doesn't have that.
Right. Multi-entity accounting where you
have a subsidiary, particularly in the
AI native world folks are going
multi-entity very quickly. You know, you
look at like the Lagores of the world
and they have you know, global
operations. Um and so there's a lot of
forcing functions and so like we
narrowly focus on those few features and
then folks are saying you actually don't
have a lot but within 9 months we were
moving people off of NetSuite because we
actually narrowly focus on being the
best for a very specific profile of the
customer base. Yeah, and I remember that
too. I remember your initial
go-to-market strategy if and you can
tell me if this is correct was was
really to catch people at that moment
where they were too big for QuickBooks
but maybe not quite big enough for
NetSuite.
>> Yes. But I remember checking in with you
at one point and you were saying you
were actually pulling customers off of
NetSuite.
>> Yeah. Which kind of blew my mind.
>> How how did that work? Cuz that's I mean
those are they were must have signed
I at least an annual contract with them
and you were able to pull them onto your
product. Like how did you win? Yeah, I
think a lot of it was um you assume that
people are very happy on these large
incumbents cuz there's so much features
and functionality. Mhm. But they quickly
pointed out that like the APIs were
challenging for them, the team was
struggling with the interface was very
outdated interface. And so they were
saying like if you did a couple things
really well, well we are willing to make
a move. And so it wasn't necessarily
like, "Oh, we'll move over cuz it's
free." Cuz like this is really like
mission-critical software. And so that
was the challenging part. Was like, how
do you convince someone, to your point,
to trust us that we were just a seed
stage business and people with $300
million annual revenue, we only had I
think four employees at the time, were
moving from NetSuite to Campfire. And so
it was just this And I remember this one
CFO told me, he's like, "Literally, we
are making a venture investment in you
by going with you because you can only
be in one ERP really at a time." And so
he was like, "I'm literally getting
fired if you shut down. And we are so
large and you've you're This contract is
longer than your runway." It was a
two-year deal for us that really had to,
particularly in the early days, they're
really buying you as much as they are as
the product. And so there was a lot of
just selling like "I've come from the
category. We're going to figure it out.
Look at how much we've built in a short
amount of time. We're going to continue
to ship." Um and you know, they they're
obviously still customers today, but I
think those early folks that really
believed, we had to find some wedge. And
for it was a specific features that we
were better at. How did you find these
guys? And how did you I mean, to your
point, like how did you convince them
Was it just the function set? Were there
other things? Because, you know, I I I
don't know. I guess a lot of founders
would say like, "Hey, I
You you have to be further along before
you can go after customers like that."
But in your you're the counter example.
Yeah. I'd say like going to as many
events as possible, writing a lot on
LinkedIn. I think we're probably 80%
inbound demand today. I do a LinkedIn
post today. And it's a lot of content,
but I think a lot of these folks just I
remember one CFO said, "Hey, we were
going to check you guys out and just go
to one of your product demos." I was
doing like weekly product demos or
something. And they're And uh he's like,
"I was going to think about buying you
in a couple years." And I attended and
literally you had everything we actually
needed. And so we immediately went into
a cycle, but they thought us online.
They opted into some sort of uh group
demo experience and they were blown away
by what we'd built. They just and they
were a customer less than a month after
that. So,
really like just going to as many events
as possible, building advocates, and
then of course customers kind of sharing
the good word as they go to events and
go to their communities as well. And it
sounds like almost like the speed at
which you were building out your
product, which I I remember um
the the pace. I was like, "Oh, this is
crazy." That that pace itself gave your
customers comfort that like, "Hey,
they're not there you know feature
complete yet, but they it's not going to
be long before they they are." Yeah.
Like some of uh a lot of YC companies
obviously, Replet, Posthog, and a lot of
what they tell us is you guys are
building so fast as we add new global
subsidiaries, as we need new features,
as we our usage-based revenue gets more
complex, you know, you guys we we feel
confident you're going to be able to
stay ahead of us. Yeah. And so I think
that's our commitment to our customers
and we've to this day I've never had
anybody outgrow Campfire. And so that's
>> um really just because we're just
shipping every day.
>> Yeah.
Let's talk about your your go-to-market
strategy at first, too. I mean, I
remember one of the things that you sort
of debated was like, "Hey, maybe we
should go in with uh
uh
you know, a a more um
like a product that does a specific
thing." I think it was rev rev rec,
right? There was a specific wedge on
revenue rec. And then did did you keep
that Did you keep that strategy or cuz I
In my mind I remember you at some point
realizing like, "Hey, whatever. We're
just going to go full throttle and and
just do the whole thing." What what what
prompted that? Or
first of all, am I am I remembering
correctly? And secondly, what prompted
that? Yeah, we we applied to YC as like
a full general ledger like ERP, but we
knew that like to get a couple customers
live, we were like, "Hey, while we build
the general a and kind of take the
spreadsheet and make them more mature.
We can also solve this something that's
almost always in spreadsheets for tech
companies, which is like the revenue
accounting and SAS reporting for like
the investors.
>> Yep. Yep. And so we're like, "Hey, why
don't we like tackle that?" And they'll
buy that on top of like their ERP, we'll
build some trust. Right. And we quickly
found that that cohort ended up not
being the cohort that was great at
converting to the core product that we
actually had were trying to get them to
move over to. So, to your point, we
flipped it and you know, probably right
after the batch, you'll call it month
three in existence, we essentially
flipped where you can only buy kind of
the core product that was more
rudimentary, and then the revenue one
was like an add-on to that as opposed to
the other way around where you would
drive one to flip the other. Yeah, it's
so interesting cuz like I guess it's
it's so counterintuitive. Like from a
product perspective, it was like start
with this wedge and maybe be really cute
with it.
But in the end, you decided, you know
what, we're just going to like punch it
and do the whole do the whole thing. And
same thing on the on the go-to-market
side, it was like, "Well, we could
target startups that are just trying to
go from like this size to this size."
And in the end, you're like, "Nah,
whatever. We can target those people and
also just pull people off of NetSuite."
Yeah, cuz to your point, I think the
other big challenge was like we could go
after more folks that were on
QuickBooks, what I call the SMB
solution, but I saw a very different
like product to build. Like that's PLG
or product led, we ended up going pure
sales led. And so, I think the features
and functionality for the in-house
accounting team was very different than
the bookkeeping community. So, we
decided to kind of over-index on the
in-house team and so, again, narrowly
focus on that entry point is when they
bring accounting in-house. That was kind
of the initial focus. And just really
really own that one moment in time for
tech companies. That's how we're able to
build the initial customers. Got it.
Let's talk about your journey from seed
to A. Um
like [clears throat] what
you know, sort of what what did you do
to get those initial customers and and
to build up the proof points that you
needed to to hit to raise your series A.
Yeah, well I vividly remember the last
day of YC, they said there was really
three pieces of advice and I still
remember I tell this still tell the team
this every day.
Build in the Bay, build in person and
get to series A. Those literally
>> [laughter]
>> three pieces of advice. So I religiously
took all three.
We're we do all three. We're five days a
week in office in SF for HQ. We now have
a New York office.
And and yeah, the the team's in the Bay.
But ultimately series A is kind of the
the one that you have less control over.
And for us it was really I ended up
doing founder led sales. I think even in
the AI era, I do really recommend
founders to stay in the founder led
sales mode. I think it's like offloading
it to AI or offloading it to some AE.
I think like feels like you know, like
oh well it's just like bring in
professional whether it's an agent or
whether it's a human. But I I still
recommend like being as close to the
customer and the prospective customer as
possible
until you have product market fit and I
still do that today. Like how can I be
as close to everyone? I'm in every slack
channel with every customer. I've always
had been even as we've scaled. I'm
trying to join and listen to as many
sales meetings as I can to really hear
because then you can you're the best
person in the company to actually like
impact change on what is happening. You
know, the sales team driving
engineering. I think you're the best
person. So I ended up getting to series
A, the kind of classic
million in ARR for us
on my own as the one AE as the one doing
all the demos, all the sales and I think
that allowed us to we didn't pivot at
all. It was always the same idea. But
there was always like micro pivoting on
like what features and functionality.
And so I think that continues to be my
advice for folks is like really own it
as much as you can. How did you know and
at what point did you know it was
working?
I would say we didn't pivot at all, but
I think if I didn't come from the
category, definitely would have pivoted
because it took over a year. Like it you
know, started in June of '23, it took
until Q4 of '24 until we really started
to see traction.
>> Right. And yes, we had paying customers
super quickly. And then like kind of the
first couple of net suite to campfires
was transformative for us. That was the
summer of '24. We had a We were quickly
rose to be a lot of buildings to do as
soon as these kind of larger businesses
came online. So, once we solved the
build for them and they became
referenceable going into the fall of
'24, people started to hear like, "Whoa,
there's like a new kind of ERP.
Customers are very happy moving off of
these big incumbents, very complex,
mature incumbents." Um and Q4 of '24,
you know, we've more than doubled ARR
each each quarter since then. And so,
but the but up until that point, uh the
business looked very different. Um And I
still remember when we raised our our A
went from a 3.5 million in funding to 35
million in funding, investors sat me
down and they were like, "You need to
start to think differently now. How do
we hire differently? How do we
Everything had to transform overnight."
And so, for me as a founder, it was very
much like, "How do we just continue to
scrap and claw to how do we scale?" And
and that was a That was a big change for
us.
>> Yeah. Tell me about how you think about
competition cuz you know, there's
there's a few other players in this in
this space now. I think um different
people came to this realization that the
world needs a new ERP and How have you
been thinking about that? Yeah. Well,
we're not the the oldest of um of the
newer kind of cohort, but um we're being
told we're now the largest. And I think
it's purely on product velocity.
Uh we we quickly hear that folks say
like, "Your product velocity is so
high." Going back to the point earlier
that, you know, we've we feel you're
going to be able to scale with us and
that's that has been the case so far.
Um, we've done great with public
companies on Campfire. We're very
referencable in the public markets now.
And so all tech companies, most tech
companies aspire to be public someday.
So if we can kind of solve for the end
state, that's why you buy an ERP in many
ways is like the the rigor um, and level
of reporting required to go public.
>> Mhm. That if we could kind of solve
that, and so we've been told we're very
good at solving that in terms of audit
and controls and approval workflows.
And then the other one, um, we are
consistently hearing we have the best
AI. And so I think maybe it's cuz we're
the only one with their own foundation
model, which is our custom agent
platform, but um, those are the three
areas where consistently we hear like,
you know, you're you're now uh, you're
you're why we we went with you uh,
because of these reasons. Fascinating.
Tell me about your ambitions for
Campfire. Like where
where where to next with it? Like in
terms of product road map, in terms of
customers. Like where where do you want
to take it? What's And and what what do
you see as like the the ultimate goal
for the company? Yeah. Well, the last
company was B2B invoicing software. I
was I was not the founder, but I was an
exec there and we sold for a 600 million
with the with the realization that the
category wasn't big enough for us to
build something massive. So I actually
intentionally went after this category
as I think you can build like a massive
public company in this category. And so
really the the plans for Campfire is,
you know, we're going public. We're
building something very long term and
durable.
Um, you know, I I I tell my wife this is
the last job I'm ever going to have, you
know, the the next 30 years of my career
will be Campfire. And so I think it's
like I do think and I, you know, chose
investors including you all of like very
long time horizons becau- and that cuz
that's how I think about the business.
What is something that you wish you knew
at the start of your founder journey
that perhaps only became clearer
uh, uh you know some distance into it.
So like basically you are the series B
founder now. Tell me what you wish you
had told the the the seed the seed found
or the you know the new seed stage.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I would say um enjoy the
journey. Okay. I think every moment is
so stressful that as a seed stage
business when you're wandering in the
wilderness and a lot of my peers in the
batch like hadn't found like they didn't
even know idea to work on and it's all
very stressful. Um it was very stressful
for us. But I I will say like people ask
me now like are you more stressed now or
then? It is more stressful now. I think
there's large there there's you know
we're over 100 employees now. There's
there's a lot. There's um I would say
the bags get heavier Yeah. uh in terms
of um the mental um piece that you
carry.
In the early days it's just very pure.
It's you know there's just you and and
an engineer or two maybe you're a solo
just coding solo.
Um So I would just say enjoy the early
days. I look back on the even as meant
as meant much and mental anguish as
there was in the early days.
>> Mhm. I would say uh I look back with uh
a lot of fun memories of my YC days. So
enjoy enjoy every moment. Excellent.
>> It goes fast. I mean it sounds like this
has been like pretty much a almost a
rocket ship like just just everything's
worked great and of course that I'm sure
there were difficult moments. Like what
was the what was the hardest part so
far? That uh the hardest problem that
you had to solve?
Yeah. I would say about 9 months in this
was called spring of '24. There was like
hey you know we're not a lot of the
folks in the back batch had either taken
off as a Like I remember the even before
that the um
the YC kind of alumni retreat or not not
retreat YC alumni day um that everyone I
was catching up with everybody after the
batch and they either had taken off or
they were still pivoting and we were
neither. Right. And so I think then it
was like spring of '24 and I remember
talking to you and it's like
well, you know, do we like do we like do
a micro pivot or do we do a specific
industry or like beyond tech
um
and I think it was just having the
conviction to keep going and it was
another 6 months that we had to go keep
grinding until things really started to
inflect. And what was it it was that was
that building product? Was it doing
sales? Like what was it that you just
had to keep turning the crank on? I
would say
it's a good question. It was a bit of
product um yes cuz it's a long build
even if we had paying customers quickly.
I think then getting to the next kind of
the not super early adopter but the
called the early adopter, we had more
work to do. Right. Um and then I think
just getting the some reference early
referenceable customers that were real
businesses. Um but I mean these
customers weren't people I knew. It was
cold outbound. They were just people
called that were signing up. And when
they started to really go to bat for us
on reference calls and in their
community then things really started to
to take off.
You know what? ERP's been a category for
for longer than I've been alive. Like
why now? Right? Like you guys predated
2023, right? That was you know, right as
AI was was getting started but I think
still a little ahead of like the point
where we realized just how pervasive it
was going to be. Like
was AI what was driving the why now or
was there something else?
Yeah, it was and that was like the
number one question from investors for
the seed round which is like what is the
catalyst? There's like a lot of folks
have tried this before. Um
my big thesis on the why now was
everything in the finance tech stack
like payroll,
um spend management with the Brex's of
the world had all like everything had
turned over in the last 5 to 10 years
except the core general ledger. Hm. And
so there was like a glaring, you know, a
finance person would log in and they
would go into this amazing like spend
management solution or AI accounts
payable or payroll and then the the
contrast with the ERP and everything
else was [clears throat] like very
acute.
>> Yeah, yeah. And so then they started to
say, "What's the modern kind of you
know, what's the modern version of of my
ERP?" And it made them almost like
realize that like all finance software
doesn't need to suck. So they started to
seek it out. And so then they were a lot
of them were finding us. And so I think
that was really the original thesis
which was like a modern ERP that's easy
to use, that's like almost consumer
grade in terms of how you can set it up
on your own, you can configure things on
your own, you don't need a bunch of
consultants. It's very fast and
scalable.
And then but actually the first we had
we we had AI pretty quickly, but folks
were saying like,
"Well, buying the legacy version was
considered very safe, but then once AI
started to take off, call it in
you know, in in the finance category,
call it like a year and a half ago, call
it you know, end of '24, it then become
being the incumbent meant you were not
AI native. And so there was a flipping
of the narrative that the board and the
executives were saying, 'We want AI
native.' And even if the accountant
wasn't fully ready to embrace AI, Yeah.
they had this blessing to go buy
something that nobody had heard of and
their C-suite or their auditor wasn't
familiar with yet. And so I think they
almost had the like air cover to there
was almost a push to them to like what's
what's safe is now actually the opposite
answer. They want kind of the new
version, the AI native version. And then
in the last year our AI has gotten
materially better as the models have
improved. Um and so now it's like, "Wow,
you've really transformed. We were doing
all these manual tasks. Now we're able
to automate kind of all these manual
tasks and we focus on more strategic
work." Got it. So it's shifted a lot.
Um but I think that's another thing of
like your narrative needs to continue to
shift even if the core product
ultimately, you know, ends up not not
shifting. Andrew, I vividly remember you
reached out on the on the YC portal
right before demo day, and you wanted to
learn more about Campfire. I'd love to
hear kind of what what what caught your
attention. Yeah, so so I remember at
PagerDuty, this was a this was quite a
while ago, we ended up
having to build a lot of our own billing
software internally because usage-based
billing but like nowadays there's
Metronome and all these things, but back
then there really wasn't. And so I
remember working with one of our interns
at the time to build a ledger system
internally to do revenue recognition.
And we we were basically inventing those
concepts in our heads from first
principles because we had no accounting
background between the two of us. So it
was kind of funny.
Um
but I when I saw what you guys had
built, I was like, yes, this like an
API-driven
ERP system was something that we totally
could have used.
I think the other thing that caught my
eye is is sort of some of the stuff we
touched on before. Like so so many times
you see founders that are that are
basically um
for lack of a better phrase, afraid of
the ball, right? And it's very rare to
have somebody be like, yeah,
you know, ERP is a is a classically huge
market. I'm just going to take down the
incumbent. I'm going after NetSuite. And
it's like, huh, this is very refreshing.
>> [laughter]
>> Like there's no question about market
size here. I can just take that page
out. Yeah.
Um and then the other thing of course
was founder was founder uh market fit,
right? Like you had a background in this
space and so it was actually quite
credible to me that you would be able to
succeed at this.
Um and then the final thing,
um which did come across, uh was the
pace at which you were building product.
Um I I remember looking at at the demo
and being like, this is a crazy amount
of product you have accomplished in the
short amount of time that you've had.
And if you can do this, like yeah,
yeah, you'll have no problems uh being
able to uh to go after the the
incumbent. Yeah, it's it's been an honor
honor working with you actually. You've
been a great advisor to us, especially
as a founder yourself. Um but I do
remember that conversation cuz I was
like, "Oh, it's a CTO he's reaching out
talking about accounting software." But
yeah, you were to your point, you were
like so involved as a founder and as a
CTO, like something you really shouldn't
be involved in. That that's what what
caught your attention and um yeah, it's
been it's been great kind of having you
along for the journey. I love working
with Thank you for having me.
>> Of course, yeah. Well, John, that was
fascinating. Thank you Thank you so much
for sharing your story and thanks for
coming coming back to YC. It was great
being here today. Thank you.
>> [music]
[music]