Title: Hightouch: Revolutionizing Personalized Marketing With The First Agentic Marketer
Video ID: Y4FUaVvBmzg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y4FUaVvBmzg
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-05-08T21:50:53Z
Duration: PT20M7S
Views: 3563
Likes: 70
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 675

Description:
Hightouch recently raised $80M in Series C funding at a $1.2B valuation to bring AI Decisioning to marketers. 

While marketers have long struggled to send the right message at the right time, Hightouch has created a solution that uses AI agents to deliver personalized experiences across multiple channels, like email, push notifications, and ads. Their AI agents optimize each customer’s journey, automatically running experiments and providing insights into what works for different groups of cust

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Today I'm joined by the founders of
Hightouch, uh, Kashish, Josh, and Tedas.
Um, they're building an agentic
marketer. The company's been around
since 2019 2020. I've got to know them
through two different YC batches. And
we'll tell you more about that story in
a second. Uh, the company is on a tear
right now. By the time that this video
will be out, they will have announced
that they're a billion dollar company.
And the last 12 months, it's been an
incredible run for this company. And I'm
excited to tell you more. What does
Hightouch do? And what is the best way
for like a person who's not familiar
with the world that you're in to explain
what you guys do? Yeah, so the most
recent iteration of hightouch is outcome
driven marketing. Marketers tell us what
goal they want to achieve and the AI
agent in this case our agentic marketer
will help you achieve that goal. So for
example, a typical B2C brand, let's say
you've purchased a pair of leggings from
an athleisure brand. They want to now
upsell you on water bottles, tops, and
other u products. So the agentic
marketer will look at all activities
you've ever done with that brand online
and offline and come up with
propensities and campaigns that best
serve that individual customer. So
imagine if you had one marketer, a human
being marketer for every customer within
your customer database. So when I was at
Airbnb, this is something that we were
actually dreaming about and hoping that
we at one point get to, but at least in
my time there, we never got to. So I'm
excited you guys are building it for
everybody else. Um, we're going to get
into the details of what you're building
right now in a second. maybe talk about
the beginning of this company. So um um
you applied to YC then you met us and
you kind of like applied together as a
team or or started a company right
together as a team but initially it was
just you and you had a different idea
and then you were in a batch after can
you just talk about what was the time uh
or what was the foundation story of this
company? How did you all start together?
We were all going through pivot hell. It
was like March 2020. Uh we were living
in again this 10-bedroom house together
in the mission and it was quarantined so
no one could really leave the house. Um
all three of us were looking for new
business ideas every day just waking up
thinking what are we going to work on
today and then we thought well actually
it would be nicer to work together on
this because we trust each other to work
hard and like figure things out. So it
was like we don't actually have a thesis
at the moment for what we should build
but we have a thesis that these three
individuals are going to like make it
and figure something out. And YC
mentioned this like way back in 2019. It
was that companies die because founders
give up, not because of like external
factors like market risk or product
risk. And that really stuck with us like
yeah, we just have to not give up until
we finally figure something out. And
what was the moment like like you're
like this moment like we're going to
work together? Does did you decide to
work together and the idea the same day
or how did that happen? I don't think it
was like a single moment. We were all
pivoting our companies at the same time.
Yeah. And we would all work in this one
living room in the house which before co
was like you know the startup co-working
space where Josh Kish and I would work
and pretty much no one else because
everyone else is going to their offices
but postcoid became this like super fun
environment where everyone was working
from home now. Um and since we were both
pivoting our ideas and just looking for
completely left field things, right? We
were in travel 2020, no more travel. Um
we we were just jamming on ideas
together and we're like wait maybe it'd
be more efficient to just all work
together. Got it. and and the initial
idea was reverse ETL. Where did that
came from? Yeah. So, honestly, the
initial idea there was a lot of pivots
to finally get to it. As you can
imagine, like you're working on a travel
company, COVID happens, your bookings go
to zero in a week when the US announces
quarantines. Um, we were initially
working on some stuff in things like
customer support and just like the main
thing we emphasized though was talking
to as many and many and many customers
as possible. And we just found this just
really big trend across all the
companies we talked to which was that no
matter what role people were in
marketing sales etc they all had a
problem around getting access to all the
data in the business and then we saw
this other trend which is that um
companies are all accumulating all their
data in data warehouses like snowflake
data bricks Google bigquery etc. Um so
that's where the idea of reverse ETL
came which is how do you take all the
data from these warehouses and get them
into the hands of business teams like
marketing teams which became a really
big use case. Yeah. um for us and that's
why we decided to go deeper there. And
who ended up becoming the first
customer? How did you get the first one
or two customers?
So Retool was one of the first
customers. Oh, really? We had like three
kind of at the same time. Yeah. I think
Retool was I think from like some intro
you know with our network from segment
and stuff like that. And then the other
company was just like we were just
looking for people who were searching
for what we were building a way to use
all the data in the warehouse for
marketing. Um, and we found them in like
some sort of Slack community and we just
reached out to them and we're like,
"Hey, we're building a product that can
solve this." And how quickly did did you
able to launch our or We pretty much
sold. They sold first before you
launched. As we were launching. Oh,
smart. Yeah. So, I would say, you know,
while we were selling those first
customers, we were building the product
at the same time and we always made it
work. Yeah. I mean, to paint a picture
like there was a point in time where the
product was running off Josh's laptop.
Um but people thought it was in the
cloud and obviously now it is completely
different like very horizontally
scalable in the cloud and secure but in
2019 very different story. Got it guys.
Okay. And at some point um founders get
the feeling that this is working. Um is
there a way that you a moment you
remember when you said okay I think this
is working. Um like was there a number
was there like a customer got really
excited? Probably like two moments.
Yeah. Um I think the first moment for me
at least was when um I just realized
that we're talking to so many different
companies in so many different
industries, right? From like this
newspaper in Norway, it's like a very
traditional company that wants to figure
out how to use data and all that stuff
for marketing. Um this like healthcare
DTOC company, this retool, um the
company in Brazil, which we can't even
remember what they quite do at this
point. Um, and I was just like, "Wow, if
all these companies in so many different
industries in so many different parts of
the world all have the same use case,
feels like there's something here." And
then there was another one. Yeah. I
think February of 20 21, probably four
or five months later. So, this is after
a series A. So, we've like already
raised like a round and like told the
world we're going to work on this for
sure. Yeah. Um, there was a week where
every day someone onboarded the product
self-s served without talking to us.
Like just signed up on and Josh and I
were like, "Holy we just got five
customers this week and we didn't talk
to any of them. like this thing is
actually working. Did you figure out
where they came from? Um, marketing like
it was like SEO, like content marketing
and that kind of stuff. Um, and I think
that was the day where we like we we
believed in the business. We believed in
it bottoms up without necessarily very
very clear evidence. Um, but our like
principles for what made a good business
to us back then in 2021 was it should be
something that people come to us for. So
it's pull not push. Um, it should be
something that people can set up by
themselves which we don't really believe
in anymore but the time we did. Um, and
that it should be something that as
Jesus said, the same abstraction should
apply to many different use cases. So
the abstraction was a very simple SQL to
SAS. Give me your SQL query, I'll pipe
it to your SAS tool. Um, but would that
same abstraction apply to so many
different use cases that we said great
like even if for example there's a
market crash and SAS tools are not so
spendy anymore, we can still go to B2C,
which is exactly what we did. Yeah, we
were really wary of like building a
startup that just sold to other
startups, other YC companies or other
startups or B2B SAS companies. I think
that was a common thing to do in the
batch, but we wanted to really make sure
that what we were working on would be
able to especially business SAS would be
able to sell to the broader market of
companies out there. Yeah. And then can
you describe like so this is 2020 then
there's like three more years go by and
then last year what what happened in
those years like like what how would you
describe for like the timeline um of the
next couple years maybe here's I would
describe it as oscillating or like ebing
and flowing um and so you can think of
the company as like three phases right
one is we created a new category called
reverse ETL ETL and getting ETL doesn't
really matter which direction you go but
calling it reverse ETL help people find
us on a map which was I want to get data
from a database face into a SAS tool.
That really worked well for inbound for
a while and so we were getting a ton of
logos. They were not paying us a lot of
ACV but they were coming inbound. So
that was a really good phase. Hired a
lot like did a lot of marketing like
things were working. Then we realized
wait we need something for business
users. Um and we have all these business
users that want to log into the product
and they want to self-s serve without
SQL queries use the product and maybe
they want to do more vertical use cases
like sales or marketing. We chose
marketing. Um that was the second phase.
Now we had to step back, reinovate, hire
more engineers, like figure out like
what is the strategy here? Maybe this is
more tops down sale, maybe more maybe we
need more sellers, different strategy.
Uh so that's like phase two. Uh and then
same thing again like I think two and a
half years later we entered that space
which was called the customer data
platform space. We started competing
with Salesforce and Adobe companies with
way more budget and brand than us. Um,
and then we said, "Let's go innovate a
third time." And that's when we built
the Aentic Marketer. And and this this
idea of like never being satisfied with
the product or always feeling like you
have to innovate. So like, where does
that come from? And I feel like it's
it's been part of you from the very
beginning. I think that we know that the
market we're in is inherently um such a
big market that it's going to be
competitive, right? It's it's an obvious
thing. Marketing teams want to figure
out how to use data and AI and stuff
like that to do give the best experience
to their customers. something that's
been talked about for a long time, but
as you mentioned Airbnb, the dreams
really never been satisfied. Um, so it's
kind of interesting. Um, even though at
each time that we decided to pursue the
next direction, we were still like
growing the business pretty fast,
everyone at the company, our investors
would always be like, are you sure we
should pursue something else or should
we just focus? Right? That's the kind of
startup mantra, just focus on what
you're doing, just keep doing that for a
long time. And um, we really had a
perspective that if we don't innovate,
we're going to eventually die. Um, so
it's like really innovate or die
mindset. Um, you know, we believe that
like you can be happy for some amount of
time doing the same thing and just keep
scaling that up, but if you're in
markets like this, eventually someone's
going to rethink it and figure out that
next trunch of innovation and like what
disrupts what people are doing today.
And we just wanted to make sure that
we're always that company. So, we're
always trying to like search for an
opportunity, not just wait to spot one,
if that makes sense. Uh, let's talk
about the early team. So you have a um
maybe you can just talk about um what is
your approach to building a team and
hiring and and there's specific person
that you weren't mentioning I think here
as well that play unique role in the
historic company. I'd say in the early
years we actually got pretty lucky. We
had a lot of great people in our network
who were interested in what we were
building. So we were able to get a lot
of engineers and at the time we actually
didn't even know how to interview. So
some of our early You didn't have the
typical resumes though. Yeah. Yeah. Were
these people from your network segment
or these were people from somewhere
else? more personal I'd say a lot like
personal connections like people who we
just know or people who were right for a
startup they were very smart like they
would figure it out with us high
aptitude people very high aptitude how
did you know that they would be good
good employees or good good corkers
at some point we'd seen them grind
really hard or we knew they really
wanted to I think that's that's a pretty
high I mean there's this thing that's
been like sticking in my head recently
which is people that don't sleep until
the job is done um and I think those
people can get like outstanding amounts
done regardless of their skill set
because of the aptitude and just the
grind. What is interviewing at high
touch like? I think it's something where
even when we're hiring for engineers,
most people think about coding interview
as like very like tactical skills and
like we we want to hire people who are
very very like open-ended about what
their skill set is. So they're very
powerful, generous, people who actually
understand like product management, good
business sense, strong communication,
very strong communication. I think these
are things that people don't always
index on specifically for engineers. So
a lot of our interviews here like they
focus a lot on communication skills like
just open-ended problem solving. Uh but
for engineering in particular we
actually have one main interview. It's
90 minutes. So it's on the longer side.
It's something like systems design but
it has a lot more openness to it. So we
give you a problem. We say like this is
like what the customer is trying to do.
What's the right solution to it? And
it's it goes broader than just your
general systems design. Doesn't require
any coding though. So it's all
architecture and just like how do you
think from a systems perspective? No
prep. Um no prep. 90 minutes. And if
someone passes that interview, Josh can
basically hire them on the spot because
it tests design, communication, you
know, tests everything. It's it's pretty
hard. What a candidate's reaction to
this process. Very positive actually.
Like do they find out in advance that
there's one interview in 90 minutes?
Yeah, that's like one of the best
selling points. It's like easy to get
the best candidates who oftentimes don't
want to go through long series of
sequences. Um it's just like one done
and I think they really respect the fact
that it's like what the job is, you
know, day-to-day. I remember when we
were interviewing like VP of
engineerings um no one believed that
this was possible when when Josh was
interviewing them about interviewing um
and even our current VP of engineering
was like really like one interview but
we haven't changed it since the
beginning of the company and and he
believes in it now too and it's just
like we call it the core interview and
it works pretty damn well. How big is
your team right now?
170. How many are technical engineers?
We have like 45 engineers and then
another six designers and around five or
six PMs. Probably a lot more technical
though if you describe it that way.
Yeah, a lot more. How do you convince
someone to join a company like like once
someone once someone passed the bar? Um,
great talent often has amazing other
opportunities.
Um, I mean we want to build a company
where everyone has really high ownership
and agency to get done. So like
there should be very high like if I want
to make this happen I can make it happen
at the company and I don't have to
follow instruction um precisely in order
to achieve the outcome. So like our
whole thing is like we grade people on
impact. You can get promoted for impact
you can get like higher compensation for
impact and even if you don't do the
thing your manager says but you create
way more impact than whatever it was
supposed to be then you will get
rewarded for that. Um, and so we think
of everyone as like if you can index on
like what matters for the business and
make impact, then this is the place you
want to work. And I think people also
just really want to work with other
people that are highly motivated and
smart. Um, everyone you meet at high
touch ideally teaches you something and
makes you a better person the next day.
One of the questions that we sometimes
ask in group officers for founders are
why are you working on this company?
Like when things are really hard, what's
the thing that keeps you motivated and
keeps going? I think the challenges of
startups in general are just very fun.
Our problem space is particularly
technical, particularly challenging. So,
I think the fact that it's been
different every year and like always
changing. That continual challenge, I
think, is the thing that's just the most
fun for me. Yeah, I really care about
just creating an amazing outcome for
everyone that's trusted us with their
career. Like every single day I think
about all the people that I work with at
High Touch that inspire me. Like for
example, this year we set a pretty crazy
revenue goal. Multiple people told me
that I wasn't ambitious enough and I
just said, "I hire one." And they're
like, "Dude, come on. that's not even a
round number. Let's go for the higher
one. And guess what? They were right.
We're going to hit that and even more.
So like they're just like continuously
telling us that we should work harder.
We should innovate more. We should like
be like more ambitious. And that when
else in your career do you get to like
work in an environment where people push
you in that way and they succeed and you
actually can achieve. So that makes me
want to work even harder cuz momentum is
something
that you can't like earn back. Once you
have it, you want to keep it going. Once
you lose it, it's kind of just gone.
Yeah. And so it's a responsibility.
Yeah. What could you said about um
trying to make the best outcome forever
and the company really resonates with me
but I think in addition to that as
founders like we agreed at the beginning
of the company that we really just want
to make a humongous business and if we
expand it in a bunch of different ways
that's cool too but we feel like we have
an as long as we feel like we have an
opportunity we put our best into it to
create that humongous business like one
of the biggest SAS companies around
hopefully. Yeah. Um then I feel like we
are we've all you know set a rule that
we're going to go after that together.
So uh you're three co-founders. Um what
are the benefit of having a co-founder?
Like you've experienced being a solo
founder and like all mer companies like
talk about Oh just talk about why you
think it's like beneficial to have more
than a being more than a solo founder.
Should probably start here. The only
person that's been a solo founder here.
I think when I was like winding down
device plane I was thinking I need to do
a hard pivot. I still wanted to be a
founder and I wanted to do something
new. But then I realized being a solo
founder was pretty tough at going
through those harder pivots. Like if
you're set on a direction and you feel
pretty good about that direction, I
think it's one thing to be a solo
founder, but when there's a lot of
thrash, it really helps to have other
people to brainstorm more open-endedly
with and be able to divide and conquer.
So I think there are paths where being a
solo founder can work, but it's just
it's quite uphill. Um it so I think
having others to go through that hard
like emotional journey with was like
just pretty important in the pre-product
market fit days uh back then. But then
even as we scale too, like having
multiple co-founders has just been very
very central to our growth. What does
the emotional endurance look like? Is it
like some days some someone's really
excited and somebody's really down or
how how does it work? I think every at
any given time there's always one person
that's going through existential dread.
And that's the benefit of having three
co-founders. Yeah. Cuz the other two are
always like, "Let's go, we got this."
Or, "Dude, why aren't you working? Come
on, let's go. Let's get back to work."
Um, and I think like just being able to
look over and be like, "All right,
they're still motivated, excited, like
we'll get through this together. We'll
figure it out." Is really nice. Um, if
you're a solo founder, you wake up and
you're in bed while no work is happening
while you're in bed. It's really easy to
spiral when you're working alone on
something. I think I've seen it in so
many friends. Um, so just having
co-founders and people to bounce stuff
off and people to call you out is just
very, very helpful. Um, one thing I've
learned founders getting used to as your
company is scaling is that all of these
dramatic moments that seem like, oh,
this customer is leaving or this
employee is leaving or something that is
emotionally kind of dramatic, they just
kind of keep happening at an increasing
rate and founder get used to them and
actually don't stress up anymore. Does
this resonate? Yeah. You get
desensitized. Yeah. Yeah. And I hate
saying that especially like publicly but
I think like a founder experiences so
much wide range of emotion that because
you experience that variability all the
time that variability becomes quite
normal. Um it's like huge win, huge
loss, huge win, huge loss. And so every
year you'll have 100 wins and losses.
It's funny because I think sometimes we
react super aggressively to those wins
or losses internally. But um that's just
reacting with speed and aggression and
making sure we learn from it. We
actually don't care that much. People
are like, "Oh, are you stressed out? Are
you angry?" It's like, "No, just want to
make sure we learn from it." Was there
ever a moment you've all felt like we're
failing and this is not this is not
going anywhere anywhere? I think always
in the pre-product market fit days like
that's like the most emotional toil
where you don't know like the end in
sight like when that's going to be. It's
like it's very open-ended. So, I would
say that's probably where the most
biggest existential drive was at least
for me was before we had product market
fit. I think there's something you
mentioned before too about like how do
you um like our exact team knows this
pretty well about us. We always ask the
question of how do you know you're doing
well? So let's say you doubled your
metrics this year. How do you know
that's a good thing? And it's what TA
said like the opportunity available is
what we want to access. We don't
necessarily want to just double our base
or like triple our base. We want to go
for the opportunity available. And so I
think like for us like failure is often
like growing really quickly but like
maybe we thought there was an even
bigger opportunity to go for or maybe we
did what we said we would do in one area
but in our new product like AI
decisioning maybe we wanted to achieve
even more. Yeah. I'd say we always think
we're failing. Yeah. So like I think but
also like fabricating those failures in
your head is I think also what keeps the
edge of like continued innovation like
hire faster like make changes faster
because I think the people that
complacent and they're like oh we did so
well this year those are the people that
stop innovating or like stop
changing you haven't had the highest
profile of a company of your size like
like it would not surprise me if a lot
of people haven't heard of you even
though you're doing extremely well. If I
watch this video and I'm like get really
inspired by you guys, which is easy. Um,
what are the kind of folks you're
looking for?
Well, I think one thing that we really
feel strongly about is that to build
this next launch of innovation with AI
um, decisioning and agentic marketing,
um, we really need to have a lot of
folks at the company who won't stop
working until the job's done. And
sometimes it takes a lot of tinkering,
trying a lot of different ways to get
the job done, especially with AI. Um, so
that's a core attribute that we're
looking for. Yeah. So, it's engineers,
PMs, uh, sales people, marketing people,
really across the stack. Yeah, it's
actually I don't think you can name a
role that we're not hiring. I think
there's 45 open roles right now with a
team size of 170. And you are in person
in San Francisco. Uh, so we are in
person in SF and New York. New York.
Okay. Uh, and it's hybrid. So, there are
people that work across like different
hybrid locations across the US as well,
but SF and New York are where offices
are. It's been incredible to follow you
guys last 5 years and thank you so much
for um, talking to us. Thanks, Kaf.