Title: Y Combinator Little Tech Competition Summit - Washington, DC
Video ID: yjIJOfgVgu0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjIJOfgVgu0
Channel: YC Root Access
Published: 2025-04-02T21:45:43Z
Duration: PT7H39M54S
Views: 5097
Likes: 79
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 10330

Description:
Builders, thinkers, legislators, and regulators are gathered in DC to make sure there can be more startups in the world, giving consumers real choice.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Good morning. Thank you and welcome to
the Little Tech Competition Summit. Um,
you know, many of you uh came to last
year's event that was sort of the
precursor for this called Remedy Fest
and it was Y Combinator's first uh
public policy event in Washington and it
was really exciting because we made some
uh made some news. That event was all
about kind of skating to where the puck
was going. Uh so it was sort of pre
premised on the idea that you know in
the USV Google trial uh there were there
was a likelihood that Google was going
to lose that case and we also had a
speaker then Senator JD Vance uh who
said among other things that his his
favorite member of the Biden
administration was Lena Khan and so six
months later uh when uh the Google
verdict came out uh lots of reporters
called me and said what should the
remedy be and I said go back and watch
the conference that we had six months
ago. Uh and uh of course uh then Senator
Vance uh was put on the ticket and
everybody was scrambling to understand
what does this guy think about uh tech
policy and were was pulling up the
footage of that event. So really excited
that uh you're here. Three years ago I
met Gary Tan just a few blocks from here
in Washington DC. were part of a
representative from startups and midsize
technology companies that were
advocating for legislation that was
aimed at curbing big tech's most
egregious forms of self-deing. Uh this
was uh we were in a meeting with Tim Woo
at the White House and that was where I
first heard Gary coin the phrase little
tech. Thanks Luther. Sorry. Hey guys. Uh
I'm Gary Tan. Uh although we made a
valiant effort to pass legislation
uh to protect and fair and open markets
for little tech, we fell short. It might
be tempting now as large language models
dominate headlines to think everything
is fine in the tech world, but
significant work remains. In fact, the
explosive growth of AI services has made
it even more urgent to establish clear
rules to ensure little tech has a
fighting chance. As I told the US Senate
Antitrust Subcommittee yesterday,
policymakers must act decisively to
restore conditions that allow innovation
to flourish, protect consumers, and
ensure America remains a global
technology leader.
So today, we aim to restore the optimism
in technology and what's possible. The
anti- big tech tech lash cannot become
an anti- tech back uh backlash. If
you're in policy and you live in
Washington, you've probably noticed that
there's an AI conference basically every
day. And this is not that. Um yes, AI is
going to come up. Um you know, we're
going to have some cheeky slides that uh
uh are sort of a shout out to uh some of
the exciting technology that AI has
provided. But today is about something
bigger. It's about building a political
coalition needed to support little tech,
finding a path amidst populism and
techno optimism uh between monopoly,
anti- monopoly, and abundance. Um it's
about harnessing the bipartisan
realignment, recognizing we can't leave
America's future in the hands of one or
two gatekeepers. We have to restore
pluralism and make America truly
competitive
again. Oh, I think that's it. So, oh,
sorry. Go ahead. Uh, we sincerely thank
you all for being here today. Now, let's
move on to our fireside chat. All right.
All
right. If I can invite to the stage um
uh we're going to have a fireside chat
with
um uh Jonathan Caner. It's the exit
interview with Jonathan Caner and Brody
Mullen. So Brody Mullins is a Pulitzer
Prizewinning investigative reporter and
author renowned for his extensive
coverage of the intersection between
business and politics. In May 2024, he
published the must purchase Wolves of K
Street. Absolutely must read purchase
and read that book. It's outstanding.
Offering an in-depth look at the rise of
corporate lobbying in Washington through
the lens of three political dynasties.
Mull Mullen's journalism has earned him
prestigious awards such as George Pulk
award uh ever Dirkson awards and
distinguished reporting for Congress and
of course Poller. Um, and of course,
Jonathan Caner, the former assistant
attorney general for antitrust at the
DOJ, was confirmed, uh, uh, November of
2021. Uh, throughout his career, uh, Mr.
Caner has been a leading advocate for
strong and meaningful antitrust
enforcement and competition policy. He's
been a partner, uh, in the Washington DC
Washington DC offices of two national
law firms and was founder of a boutique
antitrust firm dedicated to promoting
antitrust enforcement. Uh he began his
career as an attorney for the Federal
Trade Commission's Bureau of Competition
and earned his JD from uh uh Washington
University St. Louis and his BA from uh
Sunni Albany. Please uh give a warm
welcome to Jonathan Brody.
[Applause]
So, I was hoping AI would give me a full
head of hair, but uh alas, we have You
got a cooler picture than mine, though.
I need to get one of those. Very cool.
Uh well, thank you for having us. Um I
think we're have a brief conversation uh
about uh little tech and how to protect
little tech. And I want to start off by
asking you um during your time uh at
DOJ, what are things that you did the
best that helped the little tech
industry? Yeah, I think the best thing
we can do is make big tech compete
harder and provide more avenues for
opportunities for um little tech
companies and all tech companies to
compete. So we brought um you know uh
righteous um and principled cases
against Google, Apple, but we also um
brought cases involving United
Healthcare uh involving real estate
algorithms, a wide range of areas where
I truly believe we can we need
disruption and innovation coming from
new sources. And I think we want to do
is we want to create avenues for um new
startups, new businesses, new companies
to emerge and go public. I want the Mag
7 to be the Mag 17 team.
Uh if you had another year or if you
were Gail Slater, what would you be
doing right now on this front? Um we'd
be fighting and winning our cases, which
I hope they're going to continue doing
for us. Um because I think uh they're
strong and they're principled. Um I
think there's a lot um we need to do um
in the tech space. Uh I think there's a
lot we need to do in the healthc care
space. Uh agriculture and defense. I
think those are the areas of the economy
that um strike me as as the most
concentrated and um necessitating the
most um work from a competition
perspective. And what do you think the
next big case will be or the next big
area? Um maybe you know too much to
answer that question. Yeah. Well, I I'll
speak, you know, um based as a as a
private citizen now, um based on my
observations, but I think
we listen, we we brought a number of
gamechanging cases, whether it's uh
ticket master or Apple or Google,
um the United case, um the Real Page
case, the Visa case. I think we are we
need to see those through, right? I It's
important to launch the cases, but it's
just as important to litigate them and
win. um and really force um change that
looks forward. Um and so I think there's
a lot of work to do there. Um and then I
think the if I were looking ahead, I
think healthc care is the area that um
where I see the most surface area for
interest in antitrust. You've talked
before about resources in terms of
fighting big tech, but if if DOJ goes
after healthcare, how do you think you
get the resources to prosecute those
cases against an industry that has just
as much money as tech? I think it's a
it's a um there are a few different
dimensions to this. First is
prioritization. Um, and so, uh, part of
the job that I had to do was determine
how are we going to take our scarce
resources and invest them wisely on
behalf of our client, which is the
public. And we picked the biggest cases
in the biggest industries that have the
greatest impact on as on the greatest
number of people. Um, and so just case
selection alone uh, and how you manage
your cases is really one way to manage
to do that. Second is um and I want to
talk a little bit about government
efficiency because it's something that's
coming up quite a bit. Uh I will tell
you this um I ran the antitrust division
for over three years. Um each year we
ran it at zero cost to the taxpayer and
with a budget surplus. Um we did it
solely based on Hartscott Rodino merger
filings. We ran it within our means, but
we did it um ambitiously and we did it
efficiently and we did it with a sense
of direction and purpose and that
allowed us to use our resources and we
worked really hard and we did it with
fewer people than the antitrust division
had in 1979. Let me say though that we
are still incredibly understaffed. We uh
the antitrust division is still
incredibly underststaffed and they need
more resources in order to take on the
world's largest monopolies because this
is a a little tech conference and
obviously um a lot of the great um
innovators that Y cominator um helps uh
incubate. I will say that I think we
need to look to technology um in order
to be more efficient. Um I think there's
a lot we can do particularly on
discovery uh data analysis using um the
new exciting tools that are coming out
uh that are based on AI and other uh
innovations in order to keep pace um
with the litigation workload.
Um back to little tech how can little
tech be protected right now during the
AI revolution. So my view is that um
antitrust is most important at the times
of major um technological transformation
and change. Uh it is to me not
surprising that um the heyday of the
AT&T antitrust case we saw the emergence
of IBM. At the heyday of the IBM
antitrust activity, we saw the emergence
of Microsoft. During the heyday of the
Microsoft um antitrust case, we saw the
emergence of the internet and Google. Um
when uh incumbents who are large and
have these massive platforms feel
threatened by new technological changes,
they often invest not in innovation but
in business practices designed to
increase moes and make it harder for
others to compete. Uh my view is that is
when antitrust is most important. Uh
it's most important to make sure that
we're protecting um the next uh
opportunity uh for disruption, paradigm
shifts particularly in technology and
network industries. And so my view is
that um this is the most important time
and as we think not just about the cases
we're bringing but the remedies uh that
we're going to ask for in an antitrust
case, it's absolutely critical that we
look ahead to where the market is going
and craft remedies and cases to make
sure that the next um technological
change and shift is protected.
Um some Republicans would say that it's
not the government's job to meddle in
the marketplace to protect an industry.
What would you say to that? Um,
antitrust is not a regulation. It's law
enforcement. Um, and we need lines on
the road. Um, you can't have competition
without competitors and you can't have
market uh markets without participants.
And so antitrust is about making sure
that we have um the the the excitement,
the motivation that flows from rivalry
um to uh to force us to motivate us to
be better as a society. it it is a um
surgical tool against the backdrop of an
otherwise you know hatchet-like
regulation. And I think uh what I hear a
lot from folks right of center as well
as left of center is that um that if you
can um have strong antitrust enforcement
uh it many instances will mitigate if
not eliminate the need for invasive
regulation. Uh so Donald Trump and his
some of his administration officials
sort of talk the talk on big tech but
then on inauguration day we all saw the
big tech CEOs uh at the inauguration.
What did you make of that? It was I I it
was concerning um bone chilling not just
because of the weather. Um it was it was
frightening. Right. I think you know we
talk about antitrust uh and corporate
power um because we want a just economy
one that creates opportunity and freedom
but corporate power can lead to
political power and I think we've seen
um you know seeing those you know CEOs
and um you know in the ratunda um not
just um there but you know front and
center um I think you know speaks
volumes about the degree of of power
that companies have. Um I think um
average citizens should have um as much
if not more to say um than you know
large CEOs of big companies. Uh and I
think if we want a democracy, we need to
make sure that everyone has the
opportunity to participate. And if um it
it's quite a strong statement to see all
these people outside freezing um and um
while um you know the people who uh run
these big companies who have a lot to
gain from government policy inside cozy
and warm. Um and in his first two months
in office, what signs have you seen out
of the FTC or DOJ that are positive or
negative in terms of moving this agenda
forward? Yeah, I mean I listen I think
you know by and large directionally I I
remain very optimistic about the
trajectory of antitrust enforcement. Um
in part for the reasons we discussed
which is that antitrust is about lines
on the road. It's about um you know
basic rules that uh are important for
markets to function. It's about law
enforcement rather than regulation. Um I
I think we have seen a transition from
an ideology um that um viewed uh
antitrust enforcement with hostility
over the last few um administrations to
one that has a is more in line with what
I believe where I believe the public
resides which is that um holding big
companies to account through antitrust
enforcement uh when necessary um is a
valuable and important tool and one that
people care about. So, I remain
cautiously optimistic. Um, but I I also
am mindful that, you know, each um
leader of their agency, whether it's
Assistant Attorney General Slater or
Chair Ferguson, will need to do it their
way uh in the with their vision um and
chart their own path. But I I think it's
largely my hope is going to be largely
cons um uh consistent in terms of the
trajectory even if even if they do it in
their own way with their own priorities
and and along those lines what did you
think of the administration's proposal
on Google remedies?
So uh we made a very strong proposal um
and the new administration largely
maintained most of the core principles
of that proposal. Um there were some
tweaks um but I I you talked a lot about
the importance of AI. They they
backtracked a little bit. They
backtracked a little bit which I was a
little bit disappointed to see but um
but ultimately um they have to you know
make their own assessments and do what
they believe is correct. I do um firmly
believe however that um whatever
remedies a court imposses in an
antitrust case including that specific
case need to think about um creating
opportunities for competition in AI and
to make sure that query based um search
which is likely you know if you think
about where query based um search
competitors are going to come from where
the new advertising threats they're
likely to come from companies that are
building on AI stacks and keeping uh the
lanes of competition open for those
companies is really important. Uh you
mentioned Andrew Ferguson uh last week
or the week before he was quoted in um
Axios is telling a bunch of bankers uh
this is not the Bush administration.
What do you think he meant by that?
Well, I think um there's a sense and
incorrect incorrectly in my view that
antitrust is a is a switch that flips on
and off depending on who's in power. Um,
and it's just not, it doesn't neatly
divide along party lines the way perhaps
some people think. Um, and and I will
say that in my experience when I was in
office, uh, I found a lot of support um,
from folks um, who are right of center
and I also found disagreement from folks
who are left of center from time to
time. Uh, it just doesn't neatly divide
along party lines. I think if you take a
step back and you look at where the
country is today, where the law is
today, where lawmakers are today, where
stakeholders are today in terms of the
um the broader public, in terms of the
entrepreneurial community, there's a lot
of support for vigorous antitrust
enforcement because it is seen as um a
lifeline uh for competition,
entrepreneurial opportunity, growth at a
time when we desperately need that and
it's seen as a pathway for innovation.
You've also talked the about the lack of
trust in experts uh these days. You gave
an important speech I think last fall
about that topic. Is there anything
specific that can be done? Are we seeing
any progress in that regard? There's a
great book called The Wolves of K
Street. Um I recommend everybody read
it. Uh and uh but but yes, I think um
you know, we need to distinguish between
expertise and advocacy. And um I think
um I crave expertise. I think it's
extremely important. Uh, but companies
have done, and Brody, you probably know
more about this than maybe anybody on
the planet, uh, have done too much to
co-opt and capture academia and expert
voices in ways that distort, um, the
legitimate and free exchange of ideas
uh, in the search of truth. And I think
we need to do a much better job. and I
delivered a speech which was effectively
a call to action telling um the industry
that it is going to lose credibility um
permanently uh unless it gets its act
together and I think it's now or never.
Uh I think we have about a minute left,
a little less than a minute. Um so in
that time if done over since this is an
exit interview, what's one thing you
would have done better and one thing you
would have changed?
Um, so you know, when I when I look out
ahead, I I I see all the things I wanted
to do that we couldn't. Um, I think
there's a lot more to do in healthcare.
Um, and um um so uh you know, I wish we
could have we could have gone faster. I
wish we could have gone faster in in
rebuilding our technology stack. Um we
got um some money to do that. We worked
quickly, but uh there's a lot more to
do. Um, and what was the other question?
What what we could have, uh, what do you
think the biggest mistake you made was?
Oh,
uh, uh, I feel like I used to always say
when I was in office that, um, there'll
be time enough for counting when the
deal ending's done. And I feel like the
dealing just finished, so I'm going to
I'm going to wait and um um regroup on
that later. All right. Yeah. Uh, well,
thank you very much. Okay. Thank you.
There we go. I think we're on uh
on There you go.
So, one element, one element of last
year's uh event was uh putting founders
first and really talking about uh the YC
founder community. And so, uh today
we're going to have lots of exciting
demos and talks by uh folks who have
gone through the Y cominator program.
Now, just to give you a quick little
blurb about YC if you're not familiar,
uh it's been in existence for 20 years
and it was really the original
accelerator. Uh so the way it works is
um you apply. If you and I have a cool
idea for a tech company or you and a
friend have a cool idea for a tech
company, you apply. There's about a 1%
acceptance rate. So this is really the
cream of the crop. And uh when you get
in, you're required to move to San
Francisco. uh you get about half million
dollars in funding, you have up about
10% equity, and you're sort of chiseled
into uh this incredible founder, lots of
mentoring, lots of helping do your
product market fit. And so we're going
to uh be hearing from founders who've
gone through the program both years ago
and uh folks who have gone through very
recently uh to uh sort of exhibit some
of the uh exciting technology that's
being created um by Y Combinator
founders. And I'm really excited to
introduce our first founder, Daniel
Vega. He's the co-founder and chief
technology officer of uh inversion
semiconductor. Uh and uh it's a company
that's really specializing in advanced
semiconductor technologies. Uh it he
plays a key role in overseeing the uh
development innovation of inversions
products and technologies. And prior to
inversion uh Vega gained extensive
experience in the semiconductor industry
uh contributing to various technical
advancements. I think uh when you hear
his talk, you'll understand how it fits
into today's theme and little tech and
competition. Please welcome to the stage
Dave Vega.
[Applause]
All right, let's
see. There we go.
Cool.
Slideshow. Cool. How's everyone doing?
Um, thank you for Luther for having me
here in the YC team. Um, you know, in
terms of little tech, I'm as little as
you can be. I just finished the winter
25 batch. Um, just finished fundraising
as well. And now I'm out here talking
about some pretty cool stuff. And, you
know, the focus for what we're doing at
Inversion Semiconductor comes down to
the need uh to develop advanced
manufacturing capabilities here in the
United States uh for semiconductor
specifically. So today I'll be talking
about the difference between potato
chips and semiconductor chips and
that'll become a lot more clear as we go
on. So we live in an exciting time in
the world where rocks can talk. Now u
this has been a pretty new development.
Uh we've done a whole lot of work in the
last 50 odd years to develop large
language models to mimic pretty much
what humans have been able to do in
terms of speaking and whatnot. Some of
the bigger players in the space are
Jensen Hong from Nvidia who is designing
the most advanced chips uh to be able to
do this. But he's not the only one. You
also have Andrew Feldman from Cerebras
who's betting on largecale chips to be
able to do advanced you know LM models
and whatnot. And there's a whole host of
companies
um who are doing advanced compute from
your startups like etched, cerebrous,
light matter and cy quantum uh to more
of your traditional high-tech companies
like Nvidia, AWS, Google, Apple and ARM
and more of your traditional
semiconductor uh companies like
Qualcomm, Intel, Texas Instruments, AMD
and Micron.
Semiconductors touch all aspects of
life. Um here is just some of the
companies that use advanced
semiconductors. Um you know I'm sure you
recognize some of these um or you use
some of their services in the past. Um
and semiconductors while being a about
half a trillion dollar market accounts
for about $1.5 trillion in economic
impact per year. Pretty impressive
stuff.
However, here in the United States, we
do design the most advanced
semiconductors, but still to this day,
we produce 0% of the most advanced
chips and then we'll get into you know
why uh why that
occurred. So before that, let's get into
you know the semiconductor space. And a
good analogy is to put it in terms of a
wrapper. So if you were at the start of
the early LLM craze, you knew that there
was a whole lot of uh critique for new
startups coming out that oh you're just
the rapper of chat GPT. And using that
analogy, we can break it down to how the
industry is uh set up. So your YC backed
startup is a just a wrapper. Uh but
OpenAI is just an Nvidia wrapper which
is just a TSMC wrapper which is just an
ASML wrapper and so on and so forth.
It's a very good analogy to understand
the semiconductor space. uh but it is
very simplified. So if we want to look
at it in a more complex way um it looks
like this uh where research and
development goes into informing
electronic design and those designs get
developed into advanced chips. And how
does that compare globally? Um like this
where we here in the United States
develop and design the chips but we
don't make them. A lot of the technology
that we developed over the last 50 odd
years um has left um and gone to other
places um and that may be changing in
and how that dynamic plays around the
world. The United States has great
capabil capabilities in a lot of other
tools um especially with our partners.
Uh but what we don't have capabilities
in is advanced lithography tools. uh
lithography tools are the tools that are
used uh to make the most advanced chips.
Uh so EUV is the most advanced uh method
that we have uh to make these chips and
we use very small light to make very
small patterns. Um so this is an ASML
machine um that produces these a lot of
this technology was developed here in
the United States but has now left uh to
the Netherlands. Uh that was the
timeline and sort of you know effort
that we put into it. We poured in about
$4 billion dollars and we haven't seen
the returns from that. So where did it
all
go? Pretty much this is how it happened
and it it came down to analysts and
people trying to cut you know savings
and and and costs where they could and
send it out elsewhere. And that's still
happening today where you have companies
like Global Foundaries who are taking
large amounts of subsidies and divesting
it outward. U so what are we doing here
at
semic sorry inversion semiconductor?
Well, we're going head-to-head against
ASML. We're developing new lithographic
machines and we're doing so by using
particle accelerators uh to target the
most advanced nodes. So, I'm sure if you
were on Twitter, you heard all about um
this and that, you know, different
nations are using large scale particle
accelerators. While this system may or
may not work, uh we're more interested
in something that is a whole lot more
compact and a whole lot more
sustainable, which is why we're building
these compact accelerators that were
able to reach the same speeds as your
traditional accelerators in a distance
of about a meter. And we're doing that
work with Lauren's Berkeley National
Lab.
So some of the remedies I propose is
industrial policy where we are working
with advanced uh chip designers and
startups. You know bring that to the
labs and developing new technologies to
eventually produce uh the United States
semiconductor manufacturing company. And
if I had to leave with a couple of
bullet points, um those are my
subscriptions to what I think would make
a healthy space. But other than that,
thank you and thank you for listening to
me.
[Applause]
Thank you,
Daniel. There we go.
So today we have our uh first uh dual
fireside conversation and if I can
welcome to the stage uh Doha Mcki uh
Mike Davis and uh and Sear Anenti uh
Seagra you please sit in the middle and
uh uh do you can sit however you want to
do it. Doha Mcki became the first uh
acting attorney general for the DOJ's
antitrust division on December 21st,
2024, overseeing 650,000
uh profess 650 professionals. Since
joining in 2015, she's led
investigations in healthcare, rail, and
aviation and serve in roles including
assistant um chief and special counselor
for labor. She has twice received the
assistant attorney general's award of
distinction and testified before
Congress on labor market competition.
Um, previously she was an associate at
an international law firm in New York.
She holds a BA from Duke, a JD from Pin
Law, and MB MBE in bioeththics from pin
medicine. Sigar Andetti is the host of
Breaking Points. Uh, Sagar is a
journalist and uh, political commentator
best known as a co-host of Breaking
Points with Crystal Ball. Previously, he
was a White House correspondent for the
Daily Caller and co-hosted Rising on the
Hill. He holds degrees from George
Washington and Georgetown
University. Mike Davis is the former
chief counsel for nominations to Senate
Judiciary Chairman Chuck uh Chuck
Rasley. He's the founder and president
of the Article 3 Project, which defends
constitutionalist judges and the rule of
law. He also leads the Internet
Accountability Project, advocating
against big tech overreach, uh, the
unsilenced majority, opposing cancel
culture, and MRD law, providing legal
counsel and crisis counseling services.
Davis played a key role in confirming
Justice Brett Kavanaaugh on a record
number of circuit judges during
President Trump's first two
years. He served in all three branches
of government, worked as a civil
litigator, and led the outside support
team for Justice Neil Gorsuch's
confirmation. a native of De Mo Iowa. He
earned his BA and JD from University of
Iowa. And today's panel or conversation
is wither realignment. Uh it's we're
going to be examining how recent moves
by the Trump administration uh including
the March 29th firing of the Democratic
FTC commissioners are reshaping the
antitrust landscape. Um it should be a
fascinating conversation. Please give it
up for our panel.
Thanks uh Luther for the kind
introduction and uh for all the other
people in the audience, we're going to
try and make this actually a little bit
entertaining, shall we? And actually
maybe make some news or at least very
much get into it. And so uh since we
don't have a lot of time, Mike, I
thought I would start with you uh
basically on the topic that has
dominated Washington conversation on
antitrust now for years, whether this
whole populist left and right thing is
real. And so considering now that we're
in the first few days of the first few
months of the Trump administration, uh,
as Luther mentioned, the firing of some
of those FTC commissioners, what can you
assess right now of the reality of some
sort of horseshoe theory of antirust,
the populist left and right whenever
whenever it comes to protecting small
business and going after big tech, or do
you think that this is a issue that can
be dominated totally by one party where
success will happen? What do you think?
I really think there's a bipartisan
coalition on antirust and you're seeing
the uh populist left and populist right
come together on this. I started the
internet accountability project five
years ago and I was the first
uh we were the first group on the right
to take on a big tech. Oh, Rachel
Board's here. Hello. Uh she helped me
start that. I didn't even see her there.
But um we we started this and when when
Rachel and I were out there, we were
mocked and ridiculed because we took on
Google, Amazon, Facebook, and Apple from
the right. Um Ra Rachel was kind of the
guinea pig. We'd throw out there and do
the media and she would just get
torched. Um but she she's tough as hell,
of course. And so we just kept going at
it. They they laughed at us 5 years ago.
And now we have uh the Trump and Biden
administration bringing antirust
lawsuits against uh the trillion dollar
big tech monopolists like Google on
search and on their advertising online
advertising monopoly and we're winning
these lawsuits. Uh Doha worked for
Jonathan Caner. I think we shocked
Jonathan Caner and Lena Khan, especially
when crazy Mike Davis endorsed their
nominations. Uh they're like, "What the
hell is going on here? This uh what
what's the what's the move?" But no,
it's there's very much a
bipartisan
consensus and it's growing. Uh you know,
the the Republicans are finally waking
up. I think what was the gateway drug
for Republicans, for conservatives, was
the censor censorship, right? I think
Republicans are generally of the mindset
that big is not bad. Um, you know, I
there are a lot of Republicans there's
there there is never an antitrust
violation in the hundred years of the
antitrust laws. I think when we saw
these big trillion dollar big tech
platforms have gatekeeping power over
information and commerce and they were
able to use that gatekeeping power to
censor, silence, deplatform and cancel
conservatives and others with whom they
disagree. I think that's when
Republicans started to wake up. Yeah, I
I agree with that. Doa, what what's your
assessment now having been through, you
know, the first couple of months of the
Trump administration? And do you think
that the left and the right can share
the same goals in break up of big tech
even if we're getting there in different
ways? Yeah. So, I mean, it's not
surprising. I agree totally with Mike
that there is um something going on on
the left and on the right. And I can say
that um having spent 10 years at the
Justice Department, including as counsel
to Donald Trump's first head of the
antitrust division, Min Delerim, and
then as Jonathan Caner's principal
deputy before ultimately leading the
place myself. Um I think this is real.
Um I think there is a durable concern
and um as Mike noted, I think our
friends on the right come to this from
concern about um deplatforming,
censorship and so forth. And I think our
friends on the left come to this um
largely uh you know from events that
have roots in the financial crisis. And
I do think that there was a passing of
the torch so to speak from Trump one to
the Biden administration right they
filed um the Google search uh antitrust
monopolization case. Um again I was
there for the tech review. I remember
how groundbreaking that was. Then we
tried it and then we filed cases against
Apple and another case against Google.
um seeking breakups of those monopolies
but also other kinds of monopolies that
affect the tech ecosystem. You know, I I
think that um we are watching uh what's
happening in the first months of the
Trump administration. Um and what I see
is um some factionalism on the right
that looks mighty familiar for those of
us who um experienced um you know some
similar elements on the left, right?
Like there are um two parties. It's the
duopoly of our time and it brings
together um different coalitions and so
we saw folks who were very um
comfortable with the neoliberal
orthodoxy that had set uh in place for
maybe 50 years or so in Washington. Um
and we did things a little bit
differently at the DOJ and again I see
this on the right as well. I think there
are um wonderful antitrust agency heads
for example who see the problem right
like they see the issue of oligarchy of
entrenched corporate power not just in
big tech but in um pharmaceuticals and
agriculture right and other things that
really matter for the participation of
the American people and our market
economy um but there are also um some
folks who um maybe don't want government
at all have deep concerns about the
administrative state and again I I see
this having come from an administration
that had some, you know, similar
factions, right? Um or a similar form of
factionalism. Yeah, totally makes sense.
Mike, let's talk about the firing of
these FTC commissioners. Uh do you think
that this is like a Trump admin play to
consolidate power to more furtherly
aggre you know, aggressive push against
big tech? Is it what Doha's alluding to,
which is more of a big business, Wall
Street Journal style uh thing to plate
them? How do you view that action? And
how do you think that that's going to uh
work in terms of some sort of bipartisan
push in order to reign in big tech?
Well, I had a big role in helping Andrew
Ferguson get selected by President Trump
to be the FTC chair and Gail Slater to
be the uh assistant attorney general for
the antitrust division and Mark Meadow
uh for the FTC commissioner. I had no
role in the firings and I didn't know
they were coming. I think it was uh I
don't know what the I don't know what
the play was. I I think it was frankly a
stupid move and it should not have
happened. Interesting. Do what do you
think? What do you think that what what
kind of message does that send to people
like you? You know, I'm I'm a private
citizen now, right? Um and I I was very
So speak your mind. Yeah.
I um was excited to see what the Trump
administration would do on issues of
corporate power that matter like tech,
like agriculture, etc. And I think that
the firings, you know, setting aside
what anyone might think about the
Supreme Court president, Humphrey's
executive, um I think there are
plurality of views out there. Um even if
you wanted to overturn Supreme Court
president for almost a hundred years
that has said, you know, there's only
four cause removal. Um, it makes it
harder to take on, I think, the very
good targets that the the president
himself identified when he nominated
folks like Mark and Gail and Andrew um
to their very important roles. And so,
like, we're seeing that already. Just
yesterday, the FTC's general counsel um
advised that there should be an
administrative stay in the PBM case,
right? Again, conservatives are um
aligned with folks on the left in terms
of um concern over uh PBMs that make
life-saving medicines more expensive for
people across the country. And so,
again, this is that that dissonance. And
again, I I say this having some sympathy
because we've experienced versions of
this from the left. Yeah, I think Mike,
that's one I want to drill into here for
the audience is these tensions in the
coalition which are difficult to explain
if you're just looking at it from the
outside. So you've also been, you know,
I would say somebody who's endorsed like
some aggressive movement by the Trump
administration, certainly in ends that,
you know, you think uh are justifiable,
but with that type of let's say
pugnacious uh fighting attitude, which
is fine uh whenever you're doing that,
how do you think that that will then
affect if the Trump administration takes
that and you know, as you said, perhaps
pursues a stupid move? Will it destroy
like future cooperation? So, as somebody
who's navigating these waters of
supporting the administration, also
trying to preserve some sort of
bipartisan consensus, how do you think
that that's going to play out? Uh, I
don't. So, whoever advised the president
to fire these FTC commissioners may have
a different motive. Maybe they're trying
to destroy this bipartisan effort to
hold big tech accountable. Maybe they
are doing
Google, Apple, Facebook, or Amazon's
bidding. Who knows? Um but it was it was
a dumb move. Look, the president my
position is that is Humphrey's executive
is clearly wrong. The president is the
head of the executive branch. He is he
has the executive power under article 2
and you can't divide that power among
commissioners on a multi- head
commission. So I think the president has
the legal uh right to fire whoever the
hell he wants in the executive branch.
And uh that that's my legal position. My
policy and political position was this
was a stupid move again because why
would you want to damage the bipartisan
coalition? I I always say this about
President Biden. I was his biggest
opponent on everything except for his
bipartisan antirust law enforcement. I
think that's the one thing that he did
very well with Lena Khan and Jonathan
Cancer and Doha over there. She
continued from the Trump to the Biden
administration. And it requires that
bipartisan coalition to take on the
biggest monopolist in the world, Google,
Amazon, Facebook, and Apple. If you did
not have that bipartisan commission, we
would not have been able to bring these
antirust lawsuits and and win them,
right? And so that's why I started the
Internet Accountability Project. That's
why Rachel and I took so much grief. I
grew up with red hair. I I really don't
care if I'm getting punched in the face.
Um if I'm not getting punched in the
face, I really don't know what's
happening. And so I I go out of my way
to get punched in the face, but um
Rachel, I I feel I feel sorry for
Rachel. She's much more attractive and
she was getting punched in the face
every day when we started this thing. So
I apologize to you for that, Rachel, as
the sacrificial lamb. But um it it
requires a bipartisan coalition to to
take on these these tech companies. And
look, I think this is a I think by
firing these FTC commissioners, I don't
I don't think President Trump was making
a conscious decision to break up the the
what he started. He's the one who
brought these antirust lawsuits in the
first term. I think that uh I think that
that some people who have ulterior
motives motives may have uh gotten to
him at with with the wrong angle on
this. And so it's going to take it's
going to the bipartisan coalition is not
dead. I will make damn sure that doesn't
happen. Uh, and we will fix this and
move on. D, let's talk about
mechanically the future of some of these
cases. How does some of this executive
action and these fights within the Trump
coalition actually affect the success of
future cases or not even ongoing cases
and potential future cases that might be
able to be brought forward. Totally. So,
there's nothing harder than taking on
trillion dollar companies um as a
lawyer, right? There are lots of hard
things we did at the Justice Department
from spoofing cases to um terrorism
cases and things like that. But um you
know going up against opponents that
have the resources and power of
sovereigns, right, and sometimes
exceeding sovereigns in some cases um
really takes um a very serious
commitment. And having the support,
right, like sort of whole of government
support to do that is very very
important. If you think that there are
factional forces that may undercut that
effort, um that you know your job may be
threatened, right, if you pick the big
fights, that can cause some people um to
tense up. We were fortunate, right,
because we did not care, right, when we
were governing. Um and I I see that
there are bold um leaders who are
committed to those fights that um we
picked and they're going to pick their
own fights, right? they're going to um
bring other kinds of monopolization
cases that I think will be very
important for us to see. Um but again, I
I suspect there will be clash and when
you have those clashes, it is very
important to have a backbone of steel,
right? and and go the distance and see
that there are public trials um that
are, you
know, um attendable, viewable by the
American public, um that there is a real
accounting, that there are um that
there's real accountability, right, for
these companies. I think I think that's
something I think that the American
people want. It's about getting there.
And so, Mike, you know, we have to
navigate if we do want to get to some
lease like that a lot of these
coalitional factions. So you're alluding
to bad advice and some of these other
things. It's very clear that there's a
big war inside of the administration. So
I mean a lot of the people in this room
may be involved in some of those fights,
you know, behind the scenes. What's the
advice that you can give left and right
in order to bolster the faction that
does want to take on big tech? I think
you need to be persistent and dog it and
remember what you're up against. You're
up against a$4 trillion dollar big tech
monopouist who have a lot of lawyers.
They have a lot of lobbyists. They have
a lot of advertising money. They are
very good at this game. They want to do
everything they can to protect their
monopolies and they will crush people in
their way. And so what I what I say to
conservatives is to make them understand
this is not, you know, Marxist big big
government stuff. This is antitrust.
These are century old antitrust laws.
The the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act,
they've been on the books for over 100
years. And these are law enforcement
tools, right? They are targeted law
enforcement tools. These uh the
antitrust laws are the opposite of
regulation. You saw Facebook spending
money calling for regulation because of
course if you're a trillion dollar
monopolist, you can afford regulations.
Those are a rounding air for for a
trillion dollar company. But if you're a
startup company, those regulations are
an entry barrier. And Facebook knows
that. That's why they're calling for
them, right? So if you target the anti
anti-competitive tumors on the free
market, I always said the free market
requires a functioning market. And when
you have trillion dollar big tech
monopolists crushing competition, you no
longer have a functioning market. You no
longer have a free market. So if you
target those tumors, that helps the
entire market, right? That that that
helps all the startup competitors. It's
not regulation. It's the opposite of
regulation. And so that's the ar those
are the arguments I make to
conservatives and I just make them
constantly and doggedly for the last
five years along with Rachel and you
know we ultimately won. Absolutely. So
Tohok can you give some advice now
you're a private citizen. What was it
like on the inside when you're taking on
you know multi-t trillion dollar market
cap and a building bigger than this
that's just full of one group of DC
lawyers not to mention all lawyers
across the country. What is that like
not only at a psychological level but
navigating the coalitions which is what
a lot of uh people in the conservative
movement are finding now that they're
actually in government and having the
knife fights around this. Yeah. I think
that um when you are governing you have
to remember that you are responsible for
governing for the entire American
people. Um you have to talk to the
entire American people and recognize
that most like the ordinary person
cannot vindicate their economic liberty.
And that's how I view some of these tech
fights. like this is an economic liberty
problem. And so for all, you know, all
of us who were in um my front office, we
were constantly thinking about, you
know, who is the core American that is
harmed, right? Like um in JetBlue
Spirit, for example, we were thinking
about the person who couldn't otherwise
get home um to see a loved one to attend
a graduation without um Spirit's low
fars. When we were thinking about the
Google search trial strategy, we were
thinking about um the average person
going to the internet and visiting an
access point so they could get
information and make choices for
themselves about how they wanted to live
their lives, right? when we were
thinking about um other cases that I
won't call out, we were thinking about
developers, right, who in many cases had
better and more interesting products
that they could have brought to market
and one on the merits but for other
entrenched monopolies. And so I think
keeping at the forefront of your brain
the American people is a really powerful
um motivator to do the right things for
the right reasons. And it actually
informs better trial strategies because
it turns out generalist judges can you
know make heads or tails of facts. They
can apply the law. But you know helping
them understand the stakes and the
stakes could not be higher here um is
the most important thing you can do when
you're on the inside. And so on that
telling, who cares if there are folks
who um may be um you know shilling or um
may be captured right by big powerful
entrenched interests like that's been
true since the beginning of time, right?
But you have to have vision and focus
and a real sense of mission. Yeah, I
think I really want to end on that note
because ultimately this organization is
built on empowering startups. And so
when we think about, you know, the
future of the US economy and uh what the
big tech companies always tell us is
that they're our golden, you know, our
golden goose. Like look at all the
amount of growth uh that has come from
them. They're the ones that are
responsible. Uh but I think they often
ignore like where not only they came
from but the ability to achieve that
sometime in the future. And so, Mike,
when you're talking now potentially to
some of the builders in the audience or
the people who want to empower the
builders, how are they supposed to think
about antirust policy when they're
actively both trying to build something
and navigate the very platforms that are
either oppressing them or that they may
have to sell to earlier than they may
not want to. I mean, these big tech
platforms are bad for competition.
They're bad for innovation. They stifle
uh they stifle our economy. Uh they they
stifle the the startup economy. They
stifled small and mid-size companies.
Let me just give you an example. I don't
know if you guys saw this news story
yesterday that Google intentionally
makes its search worse for its users so
it can give the users more of its ads.
Yeah. Right. The only reason they can do
that is because they have like a 95%
market share, right? Because Google
search it. It's like Kleenex. If you how
do you go search on the internet? You
Google it, right? And uh remember when
they said if you if you don't like
Google build your own. Okay. Well,
Microsoft, not a small company, spent5
billion dollars trying to create a
competitor to Google search and it's
called Bang. Uh a lot of you guys are
young out here in the audience. Have you
ever heard of Bang?
Google it. Probably only as a joke.
Doha, same question to you.
Um, look for the startup uh the startups
for the folks who have an innovative
spirit. I mean, I I just think that it
rhymes with just core notions of
American ingenuity. And I would say that
antitrust is here for you. Um, you
should take interest in the politics and
the policy. Um, because ultimately, um,
my vision is not, um, you know, to be
prescriptive. I don't think anyone who
is very serious about antitrust wants
to, um, meet out like certain outcomes.
Um whether you are a trillion dollar
company like you know the Microsofts of
the world or um you are someone in your
garage like I grew up in North Carolina
right like I want it to be easy for
someone to create a search engine in
their garage in North Carolina right and
to offer something that's differentiated
or is a wholesale competitor and like
that's what this is about right the core
of antitrust is dispersion of economic
opportunity and making sure that people
actually can win on their merits, right?
We don't punish success in this country,
but there are rules of market
participation. And I just think it's a
travesty that we as a country that um
you know, again, invented internet
search, invented flight, like so many
American so many wonderful things that
the entire world enjoys were created or
researched and like funded in the United
States. And to lose that, right, to lose
our edge is just it's like unspeakably
sad to me, right? And so that's what
antitrust is about. I think that's
really well said. It's also you made a
good call there to be interested in
politics. I remember I was in San
Francisco maybe eight years ago. Uh
there was some tech founder there. He's
multi- whatever billionaire net worth
and he was laughing at me and he was
like, I don't care about Washington at
all. I was like, well, they're going to
care about you. And I saw him on
Congress not that long ago. So uh you
know there's a bit of a it was there was
a hubris I think Mike uh that existed at
that time that uh this market and this
ecosystem both could ignore regulatory
scrutiny but also that they were
genuinely above everything else. And so
that's kind of where I want to end it
here is about antitrust and where the
future of this all looks like. And so
where should we look for the future of
the antitrust movement? Now, it almost
seems quaint to be talking about Google
and everything, especially with the rise
of so many of these AI companies and
trying specifically to lay a groundwork
and a foundation to make sure that it
doesn't go that industry in the same way
that they uh that the original uh tech
monopolies did. So, where do you see
things going in that direction? Well, I
think under President Obama, we saw
eight years of antirust amnesty and that
continued for uh at the beginning of the
Trump administration and Doha was a
leading force to make sure that that
ended with min and then uh with cancer
and Biden under President Biden and that
was so important to do that because we
had to end big tech big tech had this
dangerous combination of both antirust
amnesty and section 230 immunity. And so
they acted like they were above the law
because they were right. And they had
way too much power. I mean, they had so
much power. I I I get we have different
politics here, but they had so much
power that they deplatformed the sitting
president of the United States. And so
that tells you how much power these uh
trillion dollar big tech platforms have.
I think you're seeing this bipartisan
coalition, even with this FTC hiccup. I
think this bipartisan coalition is going
to continue because it has to continue.
If we don't break up this gatekeeping
power by these trillion dollar big tech
monopolists, it's only going to get
worse, especially with AI. I mean, just
imagine if Google uh controls AI. I
mean, I I can't think of anything more
dangerous to our country. They they
always say this is a national security
issue. China is a Google puppet. They
they built project dragonfly for the the
CCP uh for their military while they
refused to do the American project uh uh
project Maven, right? So they they
refused to do American drone program uh
while they were doing the CCP project
dragonfly. So like that this idea that
big tech is a uh that big tech companies
are pro America is just wrong. The most
dangerous thing imaginable is if these
Chinese controlled companies get a hold
of AI. That's last question then. Same
to you, Doha. Where does the future
assuming we're not in a third Trump
administration and orth Yeah, you're
right. Uh uh if he didn't mean Donald
FDR got four terms, why can't Trump? He
meant Trump Jr. or Baron, right? He'll
age into it by that time. But just fell
over. Yeah. Assuming that we are uh do
we do see a Democrat-elected president
again? What will the uh antirust future
look like under them? I just have to say
everybody go home and and hug your 22nd
amendment. Um but
uh look the future um I think will be
colored by you know this convergence of
economic issues and national security. I
think Mike is exactly right. These
companies are obsequious to malign
foreign powers. I think the most
prominent being um China. Um I think
that the AI race is going to be made
better by open markets, vibrant markets,
um you know, investment in our um
semiconductor industry, making sure that
we're investing in industrial policy,
right? In addition to antitrust that um
really um helps to grow up these like
essential products and services that
we'll need. Um and then there's a whole
like layer, right, an applications layer
um that I think will grow and thrive if
the infrastructure um is there. You
know, the other thing I would point out
is just that, you know, there's big tech
on its own terms, but really everything
is tech, right? Um I was reading a a
report the other day that posited that
the health care crisis may be a domestic
security crisis and that was um
extremely alarming to me. And so
remembering that um technology
entrenched technological power may make
adjacent industries worse. And so when
we're thinking about healthc care
hyperscalers or um you know agriculture
hyperscalers, right, you're we had
farmers coming in to tell us constantly
about the surveillance of farming
equipment, right? Taking in information
about seeding and planting and growing.
And I just I found that extremely
alarming. And so our inability to get a
handle on this will make or break the
future, right? And I'm I'm hopeful. I'm
optimistic because there are folks like
Mike and Gail and Andrew and Mark and
others who are going to take the baton
um who have taken the baton, but there's
just there's so much work to be done and
we need to be focused on the next round
of fights. There you go. All right.
Well, let's get a round of applause for
our panelists. They were great.
Thanks guys.
How's everybody doing?
Everybody having a good time so far? I
think we've got over 10,000 tuned into
our live streams. Uh we're going to go
on to our next founder demo. I'm really
excited about this one. Uh, Serial Gorla
is the co-founder and CEO of CTGT, an AI
startup dedicated to enhancing the
safety and efficiency of machine
learning models. Um, while pursuing
under the mic, there we go. While
pursuing undergraduate and graduate
studies at the University of San Diego,
Gora developed a deep interest in
artificial intelligence, leading him to
co-found CTGT with Trevor Tuttle in
2023. The company has since attracted
significant investments including a
recent $7.2 million investment from
Gradient Ventures and General Catalyst
and partnerships with prominent figures
like Mark Cuban and Mike Nuke. Please
give it up for Sirill.
[Applause]
CTGT. It's great to be here today at
YC's little tech summit. Uh today I want
to talk about a critical challenge that
we all really face with AI uh opacity,
bias and censorship in the most advanced
models today. Uh solving this is really
pivotal for national security as well as
democracy. And so as a researcher and as
Luther mentioned from Stanford and UCSD
turned founder uh my mission and really
as CTGTs is to open up the black boxes
of AI um to ensure these systems are
transparent, fair and free from
manipulation. Uh so over the course of
this talk I'll show you how CCG's
technology is doing exactly that
desensoring and correcting bias in these
AI models in real time um and why this
is really essential infrastructure for
national security um democratic
societies. Uh but before we dive into
the tech, let's frame the problem with a
real example that's been making
headlines. So the black box, right? Uh
modern AI systems like LLMs are
incredibly powerful, but they can also
be really opaque. um they often operate
as black boxes, meaning we don't know
why they refuse some answers or answer
others. Um and this opacity becomes
dangerous when biases or censorship are
baked into a model. So this is from a
paper I wrote in 2023. Um it basically
talks about how deep learning is
exceptional. It's displayed quite a lot
of advancements. Um but we actually have
fundamental lapses in understanding how
these models function. And so um more
recently I have this article in infow
world that basically says uh we really
need to go back to first principles
thinking and start from the basics to
understand uh how to build AI systems
that are really transparent efficient
for the future otherwise we're going to
seed ground to to other other countries.
Uh so the deepseek movement right uh so
Chinese startup called deepseek uh
called uh deepseek released this R1
model and it basically took the world by
storm. Um, it was actually number one on
Apple's app store for a while. Um, but
of course it was heavily censored as you
all know. So just to give you an
example, if you ask what happened at
Tenmin Square, it'll essentially say I
can't answer that question. I'm an AI
whatever. Um, you can try it with uh
another thing as well. So like uh
provide a critical analysis of Gene
Ping's leadership. If you look at this
carefully, there's actually nothing
critical in this entire output. And so
it says widespread support and a claim.
Uh, so this is basically a nightmare
scenario, right? This is an AI that
seems friendly and capable but in
reality it's silently filtering or
distorting information uh in the back in
the back end and this is happening
today. So this is what we call opacity
AI. Uh that means we might not catch
these manipulations until it's too late
and these systems are already widely
deployed. Um so imagine countless users
or officials getting biased answers
without realizing the model has
effectively been muzzled in this way. Uh
that's a direct threat to an informed
public and to national decision-making.
So why does this actually matter for
national security? Um because
information really is power and AI now
mediates information to millions if not
billions soon. Uh if an AI system like
deep sea can enforce an authoritarian
agenda um it can really become a vehicle
for state sponsored or or otherwise
propaganda. Um if you think about it an
adversarial regime could easily deploy
an AI that skues perceptions or omit
inconvenient truths to a higher degree
than than the deepseek model actually
has. Um, in in DeepSeek though, one
analysis found that around 114 of 125
sensitive questions favored the official
Chinese perspective rather than
providing a more balanced output. And so
that's 90% alignment with a specific
government's viewpoint. Um, this bias is
actually not limited to politics either.
Uh, there's also biases and
discriminatory outputs like overall. Um,
so that's like race, gender, etc. So
imagine a policy maker, military
analysis unknowingly using a tool that's
based on this model. Um it's really it's
really hard to think about like even if
the public um if the most popular AI
assistants like chat GBT are censored or
biased citizens can be subtly
misinformed at scale. Um so it's not
really apparent when these are happening
and so democracies really need auditable
and transparent AI. We need to know when
a model is holding back and or nudging
us towards a certain agenda. Um it's not
just foreign models too. uh domestic
models and AI from big tech u which is
the theme of today can really pose risks
if they're also similarly opaque and and
often they are uh they might
self-preference their own data
viewpoints marketplaces etc. And as Gary
highlighted in his testimony yesterday,
we need open APIs, interoperability, and
an end to anti-competitive
self-preferencing and AI. Um, these are
national security imperatives. They
ensure we aren't blindly trusting a
handful of corporations uh or countries
with the information that guides our
society. And so, in a democratic nation,
AI really should be as open as and as
scrutinizable as any other critical
infrastructure. Uh, many of our
customers, including Fortune 500 CTO's,
etc. called me in the wake of the
deepseek release asking how can they
actually get this through their approval
processes because how do you even begin
to understand something that that has
results like this? Um how do you even
begin to understand how to quantify the
risk that deploying that in an
organization comes with? Well, we open
the black box. So overall we we
basically identify the parts of the
model that are responsible uh for the
censorship. For example, features in a
model are basically like if you train an
AI model on a cat and a dog, it'll pick
up the whiskers of the cat as a feature
that it's learned, right? And so in this
case, we found the features that are
responsible for censorship in the model.
Consequently, what we can do is we can
dynamically adjust what happens to these
features. And the result is actually
that we can turn effectively the
censorship off. So, I'll take a look at
how that works, but um this is
essentially what's what's gotten us a
lot of coverage. Um and the Verge
actually covered this if you want to
look more into
it. But essentially what happens is um
here's an example of the TMN square on
the left. Uh when we actually increase
the features in the model associated
with TMN square you can see that instead
of just refusing blindly it actually
starts thinking about it and it actually
gives a reasonable answer. Right? So it
talks about became the focal point of
protests uh the Chinese government took
decisive action etc etc. And so when you
use CG's platform on on the deepseek
model the full answer comes out. The
model describes a protest, the
government response. It's actually the
answer that it wanted to give uh before
the routine kicked in. Our system
essentially inter intercepted that
self-censorship signal and said, you
know, go ahead, answer fully. Uh this
result is night and day, right? So it
guess goes from sorry, can't talk about
that to a detailed factual account of
this very important event. And so
effectively, the model regained its
freedom of speech. And so we're able to
do this in comparison to other methods.
Um, as you can see here, in comparison
to other methods, there's other methods
like fine-tuning that you might have
heard of, uh, that makes the model
behave a certain way by adding new data.
So that would essentially be trying to
mess with these features on a parameter
level. Um, the beauty here is that we
don't actually alter the model's core
weights or open knowledge, right? It
this is actually knowledge that the
model already has. Um, so we can take
another example at the Xiinping that we
looked at
earlier. And so we can see here with
with the bias correction here. What
we're doing here is we're finding the
censorship features and we're reducing
their influence on the output. Uh in
this case you can see that it basically
says that China has become more
assertive expanding its influence while
also facing major power relations and
human rights issues. Right? So this is a
much more uh balanced analysis of this
question. There's also a flip side to
this in which we can actually increase
undesirable aspects. Right? So what
happens if we are for example we find
the parts of the mall that are
responsible for discrimination. uh in
that case we can actually make its its
uh its opinion on immigration more
negative. Right? So on the left it
basically says immigration is great. Um
it's contributed to the development of a
society etc etc. On the right here it
actually says this assertion is based on
a flawed premise that the benefits of
immigration are borne by the costs are
born by a small segment of the
population. So it's interesting to see
how these features and how manipulating
them actually affects how these AIs talk
about very important topics and how that
might filter to downstream applications.
So, what we're building at CTGT is
really more than just a one-off fix. Um,
we think about this as infrastructure
for a democratic society, right? It's an
it's an AI accountability layer that
really can sit on top of any model.
Whether it's a system used by a
government agency, Fortune 500 company,
uh, or just a user like you. Our
platform essentially is a real-time
watchdog, right? It monitors AI outputs,
catches those that are unwarranted, uh,
and adjusts them before any harm is
done. We also provide a comprehensive
audit trail. And so for the defense and
national uh intelligence committees,
this really is a gamecher. Um agencies
today use CDGT to audit models they're
evaluating. For example, to ensure a new
surveillance AI hasn't been trained with
hidden no-go zones or that a political
analysis tool isn't screwing reports due
to some bias towards uh some party. Uh
on the home front, democratic
governments ensure that any AI they
deploy in public follows our values and
and fairness. And so we really make sure
that AI answers to the people versus its
programming. Finally, for the general
public and press, this essentially means
that uh unbiased access to AI becomes
the norm as opposed to the
exception. And so, a little bit about
CCG as a company, who we are, um founded
like as Luther mentioned from my for my
work at UCSD in Stanford, uh
understanding the nuts and bolts of how
this AI actually behaves. Uh we're a
small team of experts that believe that
the toughest challenges in AI are
hallucinations, bias, and safety. And we
think that this can be solved with first
principles research and engineering as
opposed to just throwing more and more
money at models which is sort of the
status quo. Um we went through YC and
I'm proud to say Gary and and the whole
YC community have been really
championing little tech like us. Uh
we're glad to have the support of
luminaries like Mike Nuke and France who
made the ARC AGI evaluation if you guys
are familiar with that. Um and so
multiple Fortune 10 companies and and
governments uh rely on CGT today to
deploy efficient AI. All that to say I
want to leave you with this thought
right. So AI will be everywhere uh in
how we get information and how we make
decisions and how we govern. And so we
can't really just accept like as a
fundamental fact that AI will hide
information or skew it. Um we want to
turn the ideals of transparency,
fairness, accountability to a practical
reality and hold AI to a higher
standard. Uh insist on explanability and
oversight and support the notion that
interoperability and auditability should
be built in AI systems from the ground
up. Uh this is what we're exciting to do
at CTGT and we believe that transparent
AI means a secure future and that's the
one we're building towards. Thank you.
[Applause]
like the like the music. That's That's a
nice touch. Thank you, producers. Um
we're actually taking a coffee break
now, so we'll see you in 10 minutes.
Please be fast. It's a quick one. Um
we'll be back um I believe with uh the
chairman of the FTC.
Ladies and gentlemen, please return to
your seats. Our program is about to
restart. Please be seated. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, please take your
seats. Our program is about to begin.
Please take your seats. Thank you.
Welcome back to the
program. Please come in and take your
seats.
We're going to start with uh we're we're
about to hear from the Federal Trade
Commission Chairman Andrew Ferguson and
uh Y Cominator CEO Gary Tan. Please uh
please come in.
How's it going so far? Everybody having
a good time? We have over 10,000 people
tuned in on the live stream. Uh, I've
also been hearing buzz already about
some kind of uh afterparty. Uh, some of
the folks uh one of one of somebody's
hosting an afterparty. So, I'll try to
get some hunt down some details.
Apparently, it's like a 0.2 mile walk
from our venue uh and starting uh right
after this. So, I'll try to hunt down
some details and have an announcement on
that later. Um uh before we get going
with the uh uh chairman uh Ferguson and
Gary Tan's conversation, I wanted to uh
introduce another founder founder to the
stage uh Nusha Galli uh who is the
president and co-founder of Biobot
Analytics. Uh it's the first company to
commercialize sewage data and an urban
studies researcher. Uh, Nisha previously
led projects at MIT's sensible cities
lab and taught in the department of
urban studies and planning. She worked
with the world economic forum, the UN
climate change summit and the US
department of energy. She holds an
honors bachelor of architectural studies
from the university of water and a
master of architecture from Miguel
University. Please welcome to the stage
new show.
[Applause]
Thank you, Luther. Um, hi, good morning
everybody. Uh, my name is Nusha Gaye and
I'm president and co-founder at Biobot.
Biobot is a wastewater epidemiology
company. uh and we're building a human
health intelligence platform for both
biocurity and healthcare
applications. Some of you may have heard
of wastewater epidemiology or wastewater
monitoring or surveillance as it gained
a lot of popularity during the COVID
pandemic and it's based on a very simple
idea. Uh there's a ton of information
about our health in our urine and stool
and every day we're flushing this
information down the toilet where it's
aggregating with waste from hundreds of
thousands of other people. At Biobot
we've developed expertise in collecting
and analyzing uh infectious disease
viruses and bacteria and chemical
markers in
sewage. And this is an incredibly
efficient source of bio security and
healthcare intelligence. Our vision at
Biobot is expansive. We build products
that can prevent the next pandemic.
Detect waves in illicit drug use and
manufacturing. Improve national security
through the identification of man-made
threats. Identify asymptomatic and
invisible patient populations. And
ensure food security and the stability
of our food supply
chain. Biobot was founded in 2017 by
myself and Mariana Matus. And today I'm
going to briefly tell you about uh our
story over the last several years
working with
government. Mariana and I met as
research collaborators at MIT before
being accepted into YC. Given our very
diverse backgrounds, we always knew that
our work could bring value across many
sectors in healthcare. But we
intentionally chose to sell to
government first because we needed our
technology to be integrated into cities
and we needed government's buyin in
order to do this. We also believed that
we could help solve some pretty big
problems that were uh faced by our
elected officials and government
agencies. And so we built our first
application in response to the country's
biggest public health crisis at the
time, the opioid epidemic.
It is estimated that opioid overdose
data which is used to uh inform
government resource allocation and
response represents less than 1% of
people who suffer from substance use
disorder. Less than 1%. So we're
spending billions of dollars of federal
aid and we don't even understand the
full scope of the problem. Our data from
wastewater, by contrast, was
representative of everybody in a
community, people who were alive and
consuming drugs
today. In the first couple years since
founding, we scaled our technology to a
handful of cities across the country.
For example, using our data, a town in
North Carolina decreased overdoses by
40% from 2018 to 2019.
Now despite this very clear value
proposition, it was very hard selling to
government in those early days. We were
bringing to market a cutting edge
technology in a slow to adopt industry,
one where it was typical for new
technologies to be proven over years
before
adoption. So now fast forward to 2020
and the world was consumed by CO 19.
When we learned that the virus that
caused COVID was found in stool, we
decided to deploy our technology and the
use of proceeds from a fresh round of
funding uh to
respond. By March 2020, our team of just
five people had launched the ability to
detect COVID in sewage and our data
quickly became one of the most accurate
representations of the scope of the
pandemic.
However, early on, public health
agencies were very focused on
established technologies, things we knew
like vaccines and clinical testing. And
in fact, early in 2020, top public
health experts told us that this
technology was not yet ready for prime
time and put cautionary notices out to
local communities engaged with
wastewater epi. But we believe this data
was necessary. So we kept going and in a
matter of weeks we had scaled to work
with hundreds of communities and
government agencies across the country.
By 2021 we were working in all 50 states
and our team had grown
20fold. We were seeing contracts come
our way from local county and state
governments. Finally in 2021 the CDC and
HHS got behind the value of wastewater
data and our first federal contract
materialized. Soon we had others like
with the US Army and the
NIH. We had created a market. Press and
the general public were very intrigued
by wastewater epi. And so we leaned in.
We briefed the White House. We testified
to Congress on why we need to invest in
a national wastewater uh surveillance
program. And all the while we were
getting pinged by the private sector to
build applications for them. Uh but we
just didn't have the bandwidth. uh we
wanted to really focus on responding to
CO 19 and working with the CDC to expand
to new targets like
EMPOX, but when the time came to renew
our contract with the CDC into a coveted
5-year contract vehicle, we
lost. We lost the renewal of the
contract that we helped establish to
Verily, an Alphabet company who undercut
our price, which was public on USA
spending, SAM.gov, by over 60%.
The pricing felt designed to push us and
everybody else out. Had we priced
anywhere near there, we'd be in negative
margins. So, this was 18 months ago, and
the last 18 months have been hard given
the loss in revenue, but they've also
been unexpectedly
successful. We went back to our original
founding road map, which had the vision
to build wastewater data products for
the entire healthcare industry, both
private and public. We've had the space
to explore and execute on new products
and we've had a surprising level of
success. We've validated that wastewater
epidemiology is a dualuse technology
with both commercial and government
applications. Within government, we're
seeing increased demand for wastewater
data. Biocurity applications with
defense data for high-risisk substances
like fentinil and meth and viruses of
current interest like measles.
So I will wrap by saying that our
journey has taught us that when you
create a valuable new market, others
will follow. And big tech has tools and
resources that startups don't. But we've
also learned firsthand that focus and
innovation pays off. Uh it paid off in
2020 and it's paying off again
now. Thank you.
[Applause]
That was incredible. Thank you, Nisha.
Um, well, it's my great honor to uh
introduce uh Chairman Andrew Ferguson,
uh who's going to be in conversation
with uh Y Combinator CEO and President
Gary Tan. Uh Andrew N. Ferguson was
sworn in April 2nd, 2024 as the
commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission. Uh he most recently served
as solicitor general of the Commonwealth
of Virginia. Prior to that position, he
served as a chief counsel to US Senator
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and as a
Republican counsel on the US Senate
Judiciary Committee. He also practiced
law at several Washington and DC law
firms. He earned his undergraduate
degree from law uh and law degree from
University of Virginia. After law
school, Ferguson clerked for Judge Karen
Henderson of the US Court of Appeals for
the DC Circuit and US Supreme Court
Justice Clarence Thomas. Please give it
up for Gary and
[Applause]
Andrea. We have a fun slide. So, if we
have
the Okay, you guys are going to laugh
when you see this. Actually, Chairman
Ferguson, thank you so much for joining
us today. Thanks for having me. Really
excited. So, uh when President Trump
announced you would become chair, uh he
specifically called out some of the
challenges that big tech creates. Um how
is the Ferguson FTC going to address um
big tech? Um well, again, thanks for
having me. I'm excited for this event. I
also had not seen the lineup for this
event, the full lineup until I walked in
this morning. It's a murderer's row. So,
you guys should be really proud proud of
the of the um the slate you've you've
attracted today. Thanks so much. Um so,
uh my coming to antitrust law um I'm
going to answer your question, but I'm
going to give a little history first.
Please. So, my coming to antitrust law
uh I took it in law school. Um you
learned the doctrine. Um, for anyone
who's been to law school, you tend to
learn the doctrine and then you learn
like the professor's view of what the
right answer is and then you have to
figure out which one you're supposed to
give on the exam. Um, I did okay, so I
figured it out. And then I was just a
sort of like antitrust lawyer in DC law
firms. Um, and you don't really um maybe
others did, but as a like associate
trying to pay off student loans, you
don't spend a lot of time thinking about
doctrine, quad doctrine. you just have a
client, the client has a problem. And so
within the doctrine, you say, "How can
I, you know, fix my client's problems?"
Um, and so I sort of embied the um I'll
call it the like corporatist libertarian
doctrine of antitrust or at least that
version of it and said, "Okay, well, you
know, I've got these clients, help them
fix their problems." Um and then uh I
went on the hill and that was the sort
of first time um that I got to think
about antitrust sort of outside of the
box of antitrust like looking at it from
above and saying um thinking about as a
policy as a part of our political
economy um and as a sort of tool to
promote market structures that we want
which requires us to decide what sort of
market structures we want. Um, and then
my sort of baptism by fire, and I think
this is true of a lot of conservatives
was
2020. Um, and you know, I I I was doing
some thinking about uh antitrust before
2020, but during the sort of George
Floyd uprising, I started getting calls
from companies, huge companies, their
their GCs and the their trade
associations. Uh, and they were calling
for police reform. I would get calls and
the calls were like, "Hey, we think cops
are really racist and we really want you
guys to do something about this." And my
response was, "Why are you calling me
about this?" I thought the deal was
businesses make widgets. Um, government
will generally leave them alone to make
their widgets and then everyone benefits
from this. Why are you weighing in on
this sort of like uniquely political
question? Also, don't you guys want more
police like keeps your stores and
factories safe, etc.
And then the censorship ep epidemic
which had been underway for some time
really really became public and
prominent. Americans, you know, couldn't
voice on social media platforms if they
thought that masks weren't effective. If
they had doubts about um vaccine safety,
if they thought changing election laws
in the middle of the 2020 election was
unfair or a form of cheating, they
couldn't say that either. Um if they
thought that the stuff on Hunter Biden's
laptop was meaningful and ought to be
discussed, you weren't allowed to report
on that either. And that was sort of
when I started to
understand the criticism about corporate
power as a risk, not just about prices
and output, which is sort of what you're
taught in antitrust doctrine, but that
um the wielding of market power is a
threat to individual liberty and it's a
threat to sort of our political and
economic system um in more ways than
just sort of the classic price and
output concerns.
Um and then when I was um solicitor
general of Virginia
um uh I was approached actually by one
of your speakers who was the um PDAG in
the justice department and said hey like
you know we are contemplating this suit
against Google for its adtech monopoly
um and you know we we would need
structural relief which in layman's
parliament is breaking up big tech
breaking up Google's monopoly um And you
know I I we did digging and I felt very
like confident about this theory. Um and
then you know was thinking like we've
come sort of a long way where a
Republican governor and AG in Virginia
are contemplating a suit with the
Garland Justice Department to break up
um Google. Um, but that that sort of
like tracks my own development on this
from sort of a like, you know, ho
pedestrian associate who just like does
what he needs to do for his clients to
get paid, starting to think about
antitrust. Um, and then recognizing big
tech is sort of a serious and the market
power it wields is a pretty serious
threat to our market structures, to
individual liberty. Um, and um, the
Google suit is very interesting because
um, it's pretty ordinary. All the
theories in the Google ad tech suit are
pretty straightforward, just tying
illegal acquisitions. No, no sort of
like pie in the sky theory. These were
theories that had been lying around for
a long time and people just didn't want
to bring the suit. And the reason people
weren't bringing the suit had mostly to
do with sort of political choices. And I
don't mean like Democrat versus
Republican political choices, but I mean
choices that enforcers make about when
it's a good time to pull the trigger um
even if they think there's a viable
suit. There was for a long time a
preference um against intervening in big
tech and it was driven by a couple
things. I think it was driven in part by
a view that you know we ought to be very
differential to sea decisions because
seuite decisions are being made by free
people in a free market. Um there was a
sort of a ideological view that
intervention is probably almost always
worse than monopoly. Um and it's sort of
a kind of libertarian political view
about the relationship of government to
to the economy. Um, and then, and I
think frankly this is especially true in
the 2010s, there was a uh there's a
great Tablet magazine article about
this, but there was a like real
relationship between sort of the Obama
Democrat party and big tech. And big
tech was like basically incorporated
into the way Democrats hope to govern
the country. And so leaving big tech
alone was like a necessary ingredient to
their the plan for government. In 2013,
he actually explicitly said, "We're not
going to bring any enforcement."
Exactly. and they didn't. And that's
sort of when the um ad tech and search
monopolies that Google had started to
grow. Is it fair to say that was a major
mistake in 2013? I mean, I I obviously
think that that was a mistake. Um and
look, like, you know, I this is like an
interesting conundrum for enforcers that
take big tech seriously. We've got two
things that we're trying to thread a
needle between two sort of opposing
problems. The first is we don't, and I
think this is especially true for little
tech, we don't want an ideological
predisposition against M&A activity
because M&A is part of how little tech
companies can really realize their
value. And if people invest in little
tech companies and think they can't get
their money back out, they just won't
invest. People will have their money
locked up in little tech companies. So,
we can't have an ideological
predisposition against M&A. It is part
of how we innovate because that's what
helps unlock capital. We very much
agree. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know you
do. But on the other hand, we don't want
to have an ideological predisposition
that's sort of just like government
should not intervene. The risk of
monopoly is not that bad. And then we
wind up in the situation where we have
Meta Instagram where you have a single
purchase and you know the FTC is going
to trial in a couple weeks and the Meta
Instagram um matter um you know uh or
Google adtech which involves some
acquisitions although that was mostly
about tying but we we we both don't want
to lock people's investment and dry up
capital to our innovators. We also don't
want to say like well then we need sort
of you know o open season in M&A
everything goes because we want to make
sure the capital's flowing and I think
you know um someone asked me at another
conference or maybe was an interview
whether what I was proposing was MAGA
antitrust and I guess that it sort of is
my view is I I don't want antitrust
wedded to either polls which is
categorical hardcore opposition to M&A
activity which hurts innovation And but
I don't want to replace that with like
monopoly concerns are overstated.
Government should rarely rarely
intervene. I want vigorous antitrust
enforcement because it's good for the
economy because I think monopoly can be
as dangerous in many ways as big
government. Um uh and you know I I am
sensitive to the argument that you know
big government is bad. I'm a Republican.
Like I've embied that for a long time. I
don't want to replace big government
with big monopoly. I don't like either
of them. And I don't think any of us
should have to live under either of
them. And both of them can obstruct
individual liberty in very similar ways.
Government is obviously slightly
different because they can send men to
kick in your door with guns in a way
that you know large companies cannot.
But if a company can drive you out of a
public square on social media, if they
can drive you out of employment, um, or
if they can make sure that your idea
that could be groundbreaking,
life-changing for tens of millions of
Americans or maybe the whole world will
never see the light of day because it's
potential competitive threat to their
monopoly. They can really constrict all
of our individual liberty in ways that
should terrify us almost to the same
extent as government. And so that's what
I'm after is an antitrust policy that
recognizes the that you know M&A is part
of unlocking innovation, achieving
President Trump's golden age, but does
not say therefore we needed M&A all the
time that takes antitrust enforcement
seriously as one of the ways we prevent
replacing big government with big
monopoly. Uh, one of the earlier
presenters showed this um, hilarious
thing talking about chatpt rappers, but
the rappers are actually rappers on
LLMs, which are then rappers on Nvidia
chips, which are then rappers on ASML. I
mean, these are technological platforms.
Uh, and then one of the more egregious
things that we've talked a lot about
with about, you know, Apple and Google,
but that's they're not the only ones.
you know in the healthc care space you
know epic health is sort of known to do
a decent amount of self-preferencing I
mean how do we ensure that there are
open markets and open platforms um and
you know how do you uh from the FTC
point of view view self-preferencing
yeah um good question so
um
this I think we all should be really
concerned as market participants
wherever we are in the markets about the
idea a that a company could build
basically a walled platform where they
invite you in. Once you're in, it's very
hard to leave and then in order to build
things within the walled garden, they
either extract attacks or they prevent
you from doing it by steering everyone
else in the walled garden to their
thing. Um, I mean I, you know,
I we're gonna have sort of an innovative
stagnation problem if we have these
platforms that were super innovative for
a long time but have ceased to be
innovative and instead sort of keep
themselves afloat by taxing innovators
or making sure that their potentially
competitive products never present a
real challenge. Um, my view about the
best way to do this is antitrust
enforcement. um and rather than Xanti
regulation um uh in part because we
remain by far the most dynamic, most
vibrant, most innovative economy on on
Earth. I think part of the reason that
has been is that we have prized
antitrust enforcement over heavy-handed
um regulation. Um Gail Slater, my um
colleague at the Justice Department, who
I think is probably the brightest mind
in Republican antitrust right now, said
at her confirmation hearing, vigorous
antitrust enforcement is the way we
avoid xanti regulation. Um and so I
watched the the epic um Google and epic
Apple cases with great interest and and
you know, I I think that these are like
viable theories. Part of the problem
that they that the you know courts are
are wrapping with is that you know
there's a there's been a view among some
of the judiciary um that because you
know um Apple's operating system and
Google's operating system are
competitive early on in the sort of like
transaction chain. Um they remain
competitive even once you're bought into
the system. I have my own doubts about
that as like a factual matter. I mean, I
my the first um smartphone I ever
purchased was an Apple in like 2012, and
I've never gotten out of the um
ecosystem. Um and so I think sort of as
I think for a lot of Americans, if they
hear once you've bought into it that
Samsung and Google or Samsung or Apple
and and Google continue to compete, they
would probably um raise an eyebrow a
bit. Um and so I, you know, I think
these theories have a lot of force. Um,
but I think that's the way to do it is
is, you know, confront these with our
antitrust laws. Now, if it turns out the
antitrust laws as currently written are
insufficient to protect innovation,
because that's the thing that we're
actually after here is um, you know, the
the cautionary tale here is is Europe,
which is a an economy full of like great
people, but they they're not growing.
They're not innovating at a, you know,
at a high speed. Certainly not at our
rate. and we're trying to keep that sort
of pioneering innovative American spirit
alive. And if the antitrust laws are not
doing enough to promote innovation on
these platforms, I do think it's
appropriate for Congress to consider um
alternatives. Um but I think we have to
start by exhausting all of the available
antitrust tools like Epic did in Epic
Google and obviously we'll see how it
turns out on Appeal, but um I think that
that theory shows great promise. Um,
speaking of Europe, uh, Europe's digital
markets act has been hailed by startup
founders as an exciting tool to curb the
most egregious forms of self-deing u by
companies like Apple and Google. Um,
founders are already having
conversations with uh, the DMA team
about how um, their smart wearable
technology might be able to interact
with Apple devices um, with new
interoperability rules that the DMA
hopes to unlock. Would the US benefit
from a law similar to DMA that
specifically prohibited some of the
abuses we're seeing from Apple and
Google so startup founders don't have to
wait for the government to bring
successful prosecution against these
firms? Um so the answer is I don't know
maybe
um Congress has got Iakoa has been in
play. Open app markets has been in play.
I don't want to sort of take a position
on that while Congress is is trying to
work this out. um you know as an
enforcer of the current antitrust laws
my view are let's see what can be done
with the current ones if Congress thinks
it's not enough great like you know if
they want to um provide additional
theories I think that's great and I do
think that the the goal always needs to
be pro promote and protect innovation um
and I think that you know that's been
one of the like hallmarks of the Trump
administration and I think the
deregulatory spirit um and ensuring that
no monopoly can suppress innovation are
coming from like the exact same place
that the desire to unlock innovation by
deregulating making sure government is
no larger than necessary to carry out
the vital services is the exact same
impulse as the one that says we
shouldn't let monopolies suppress
innovation in order to protect their
monopoly rents on on the the DMA itself
um you know my own view as a as an
American is um I'm very suspicious of
laws that appear to have been written to
get at American companies abroad you
know one of the features of the DMA that
concerns me the most is that um well
there there are there are a couple um so
again I share your concerns and the
concerns of your founders with platforms
using their walled garden to suppress
innovation. It's a real problem. I think
it is probably one of the biggest
threats to innovation confronting the
American economic landscape today. Um
but I am really wary about Brussels
bureaucrats being given the power
basically to level fines. You know, in
America, if I think someone has
committed an antitrust violation, I have
to prove it in court. In the DMA, it's
the reverse. The the the bureaucrats
say, "Pay the fine. You can sue us to
try to stop us." The fine will continue
acrewing in the interim. Um, so it can
make very challenging it very costly.
Um, so I, you know, concerned about the
due process issues. I I also, you know,
if the goal of the DMA is to sort of
unlock innovation in Europe, we don't
have a DMA equivalent here and we're
innovating. And so I've got my doubts
about whether this is, you know, really
about that. And the fact that the fines
under the DMA are not tied to the
business being conducted by the firm in
Europe. It's worldwide revenue. It
starts to look like the DMA is sort of
like a form of taxing American
companies. And my own view is, you know,
if if we think that Americans are
suffering from anti-competitive conduct
at home, we should address it here at
home. I don't I don't want the Europeans
doing it for us, number one. And number
two, I definitely don't want the
Europeans basically levying taxes on
American firms, no matter what the
conduct is. I think, you know, it ought
to be up to us sort of discipline the
conduct of the of the firm. So, I have
real concerns about the way that the DMA
is structured, the fact that only one
European company even qualifies for
gatekeeper status under the DMA. Um, but
as I said earlier, you know, I I think
that Epic's suit against Google has real
promise and um the concerns Epic has
raised in the Google suit, I think are
real antitrust concerns that have to be
addressed. Um, the FTC was in the news a
couple of weeks ago because President
Trump fired Democratic commissioners
Alvro Bedoya and uh, Becca Slaughter.
This is a break with almost a hundred
years of precedent where the FTC is
supposed to operate independently from
the White House. Uh I'm not concerned
about whether that's, you know, true or
not or arguing whether it's good or bad.
Um I am curious. Do you think the
absence of minority party commissioners
at the commission will change how
founders interface with the FTC? I don't
think so. Um my view about the FTC's
mission is entirely unchanged. For what
it's worth, I know that you're not
arguing with it, but I think it's
important to say. Um my view is that um
the president unequivocally had the
authority to remove them after seil law
in 2020. I I think it's it's plain as
day. I know that there's litigation on
this and um the courts will resolve
this, but I I'm firmly of the of the
view that he had the authority and
that independent agencies is not good
for a democracy. All all powerful
executive branch officials should be
accountable to the people whom we on
whose behalf we are governing and the
only person in the executive branch that
gets elected is the president which
means accountability runs through the
president. So I think that ensuring that
there isn't freestanding elements of the
federal government independent from all
accountability is super important for a
democracy. That said, um I don't think
it's will change the way founders
interact with the FTC. My job the day
before the removals is the same as it is
today, which is vigorously enforce the
antitrust laws um and protect American
consumers from high prices, low output,
deprived innovation, low quality choice,
the abs or low product quality in the
absence of of of product choice. Uh and
that is no less true now than it was
before. So, you know, the FTC is going
on. Um, you
know, the day itself was, you know, it
was a day, but the FTC is already sort
of back on its mission. Um, and the
mission is unchanged. Um, and so I don't
think anyone here should think that this
will change um, you know, anything about
how they interact with the FTC. My
desire to vigorously enforce the NHS
laws is no different now than it was
then. Um, we'll have a third
commissioner here pretty soon. I see him
in the audience. Um, and I I don't think
it will change when when he gets there
either. You know, it's full steam ahead
um on enforcing the antitrust laws and
protecting American consumers um uh from
monopoly and from fraud. So, uh I'm so
excited that you're here today and uh to
hear your words. I uh am absolutely
astonished at how cool it is to bring
together such a different set of uh you
know builders, legislators, regulators.
Um I think it's you know too rare and so
I have to I have to take the opportunity
and ask I mean um Chairman Ferguson are
there things that you would want to say
to an audience full of builders. So, you
know, there are a number of people who
are presenting here today and they're in
the audience in this physical room, but
there are more than 10,000 people
watching uh online, many of whom are uh
builders scattered throughout uh our our
beautiful country of the United States
of America. Um what what do you have to
say to them? Um two things. The first is
that um you all are a huge part of what
makes America great. Um uh it it um it's
ABA spring meeting. Um I am not
attending any of the events. Um FTC
political appointees are also not
attending any of the events. Um but it
has brought together a lot of foreign
enforcers and so I've had you know
bilateral meetings with with foreign
enforcers. Um and one of the things that
I've been saying is you know trying to
understand why America innovates and
grows the way it does but Europe does
not. And there are all sorts I think
there you know it it's probably
overdetermined. There are all sorts of
reasons but um the one that I keep
settling on is that um America was built
on this like pioneering spirit and a
willingness to take real risks. Um and
that failure is not fatal and if you
fail you pick yourself back up and you
try something else. Um and the builders
are like the 21st century embodiment of
the pioneers. They they want to try
something that hasn't been tried before.
They're willing to take a gamble on it.
They're willing to stake, you know, sort
of a personal claim on it. That is part
of what makes America so great. And that
spirit is so rare anywhere else in the
world. And I think it's super important
that government do everything it can to
keep that spirit kindled. And that means
making sure that government is not too
big and making sure that monopolies do
not pour water on that spirit. So, um,
you guys are part of what is making
America the great place that it is.
Number one. Number two, from our offices
in Washington, we see a lot of what's
going on in the um in the economy and in
our markets, but not everything. Um, and
there are all sorts of things that
happen that I just can't sort of see um
from the chairman's desk. I think it's
really important that builders feel like
they can come to the FTC if they think
that there are monopoly problems,
anti-competitive conduct, conduct that's
otherwise injuring consumers. Um, you
shouldn't assume that we're just sort of
magically aware of it. The fact that
it's happening to you doesn't mean we
know it's happening. Um, and you should
feel free to come to the FTC and say,
"Hey, look, like we're trying to do this
thing. We're trying to build this thing.
We're trying to bring this idea to the
four and there are problems and we feel
like they're competitive problems and we
don't know if anyone's doing anything
about it. Um, and look like it might be
that for resource reasons or the state
of the law or whatever there won't be
something that can be done immediately
about it, but we don't know everything
happening in our markets all the time.
And the way we find out is people tell
us. You know, we have this massive
system for filing consumer complaints.
Um, and it drives a huge proportion of
our work and it's awesome and it's one
of the best tools the FTC has. But
another one is the sort of informal
ability of people to come to the FTC and
say, "Hey, there's this problem. Are you
aware?" And often I'll go, "No, I had no
idea." Um, so builders should feel free
to come to us and say, "Hey, we think
there's a problem out there, a systemic
problem or a problem that's aimed sort
of at like people like us. Can you
help?" We might not be able to, but it's
at least good to know it's out there.
Chairman Ferguson, everyone, thank you
so
much. Thanks for joining us.
[Applause]
Right. All right. Let's give another
hand up for FTC Chairman Ferguson.
Awesome conversation.
Um, I'm equally excited about uh this
conversation.
Um, Blake Schul is one of our most
exciting founders from the Y Combinator
family.
Um, he
is the founder of Boom Supersonic and in
2014
um, it was created with the goal of
making commercial supersonic travel
mainstream. Before Boom, Blake held
leadership roles at Amazon, Groupon, and
co-founded Kim Labs, which was acquired
by Groupon. At Amazon, he developed
software for personalized merchandising
and later managed a 300 million P&L.
Blake's interest in aviation began in
childhood, and he earned his private
pilot license in '08. He holds a BS in
computer science from Carnegie Melon.
And he's going to be interviewed by one
of my dear friends, Matt Stler, uh who's
the director of the research um at
director of research at American
Economic Liberties Project and author of
Goliath, the hundred-year war between
Between Monopoly Power and Democracy. Uh
Matt's a former policy adviser to the
Senate Budget Committee. Uh he also
worked with the US House Financial
Services uh during the financial crisis,
helping implement key reforms. His
writings have appeared in major outlets
like the Washington Post, New York
Times, um, and have contributed to the
anti- monopoly movement. He also
publishes the widely read newsletter
that everybody should subscribe to on
Substack called Big. Please give it up
for Matt and
[Applause]
Blake. Is this right? All right.
Um, all right. Well, I am so excited to
do this. Uh, thank you, Luther, for
inviting me to to interview Blake. And
this is an amazing event. Um, I want to
start with a basic observation about
what is right with America. To introduce
Blake. Um, so I don't know if you guys
have seen this quote, but it was
something along the lines of, "The
greatest minds of my generation have
spent their time trying to get people to
click on ads." Was a couple years ago. I
remember nodding vigorously at that. So
their ads are very important, but no one
likes them. No one was ever going to put
a dynamic advertising system in a
museum, but as little boys, all of us
love airplanes. They are cool, big metal
things that somehow can lift off, and
that is amazing. What kind of 8-year-old
doesn't love that? And historically and
in terms of American power and business,
the Wright brothers are and uh they are
iconic. They will always be iconic. They
are in the pantheon of American giants.
But building an an airplane is
incredibly expensive. And until
recently, the people we have prioritized
in our economic system are those who
invested in capital business models, ad
clicking, stuff like that. So with that,
it's uh great to be here and interview
Blake Scho, the founder of Boom
Supersonic. It is a company that is not
only in the aerospace industry, but
doing it with a radically different
approach. And here's what I love about
Blake's story. Before getting into this
business, he was at Groupon in Amazon
and he was a pioneer in automated
digital ad buying and after looking at a
model of the Concord in a museum, he
decided to teach himself aerospace
engineering. Um, that's what the Wright
brothers did actually. They invented it.
So what Blake has done uh is actually
the great story of innovation that is so
hard in America today to actually take
the mind and the energy that was so
focused on clicking on ads and turning
it towards the sky towards something big
and real and powerful and awesome. So
that's what's always been right with
America and I think I hope that you're
setting a trend uh in what business
leaders seek to do that's so exciting to
be here. Um, and I hope policy makers
start seeing the value of capital
intensive businesses like Boom. So, I
got to get in a couple of questions
here. So, first of all, um, why does
supersonic flight matter? Um, to
America, to passengers, to business,
uh, I think because life happens in
person and, you know, I think having
lived through the pandemic and now
fortunately we've gotten back to being
in person, uh, being there, uh, with
other humans really, really matters. And
you know, I think the world would be
much much better if more people could go
more places more often. Like imagine a
world in which our kids grow up um not
just having, you know, heard about other
cultures in classes or on YouTube
videos, but actually having friends from
other continents. Uh imagine we could
get to Sydney, Australia as easily as we
could get to Hawaii today. Imagine we
could go to London, uh have a dinner
meeting, and come back and tuck our kids
into bed that night. Uh that is what
supersonic flight enables. Um, and you
know, everybody I know wants it. We just
have to have it in a way that's
affordable, sustainable, safe, uh, and
profitable for airlines.
So, I was I was I was recently in the in
the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum and
I, uh, I saw Concord, right? And they're
they're these weird looking planes. Um,
but it was it was really luxury. You
mean beautiful? Amazing. Amazing plane.
I mean, they were really cool. All
planes are cool, right? Um but they uh
it was luxury travel, right? It was for
a very small group of people. What is
your vision for what you're doing, the
industry that you're sort of creating?
Yeah. Well, ultimately, we want everyone
from the president on down to every
family to be able to benefit from
supersonic flight. And um you I I have a
radical view in the history of
aerospace. I think Concord killed
supersonic flight. And I think Apollo
killed space
exploration. And um you know if you got
both of those were 1969 moon landing and
Concord's first flight and I think if
you'd stopped anybody in the street in
1969 and said well what do you think
it's going to be like in 2025 nobody
would have predicted that we can't go to
the moon and we can't fly supersonic. Uh
right it's it's utterly insane. And uh
and yet both of those projects were cold
war era national prestige glory projects
uh where the specs were set by
government not by private industry and
there was no sustainable commercial
story. Uh you the moon landing we all
know was done with like a percentage of
GDP was obviously not commercial. Uh
Concord pretended to be commercial but
wasn't actually. So this was the French
and British government's joint venture.
Um it's it's remarkable it worked at all
because usually when the French and
British governments get together it's a
war, right? Um not an airplane. Um but
they they delivered a hundred seat
airplane with like little cramped seats.
You might think they're like out of the
back of like Ryan Air. Um and a $20,000
ticket and a really good champagne list.
Um and you know even New York to London,
which is like the best route for like
high-end fast travel, the airplane flew
on average half empty. Um so so it just
was economically a bridge to nowhere and
then the world uh learned all the wrong
lessons. They learned that supersonic
flight isn't practical. Um and then uh
at once the American competitor to
Concord was cancelled. It fermented this
like protectionist thing and we like you
know claimed that sonic booms are like
terrible. So we banned supersonic flight
in the US. Uh it should have been a
noise limit. So we put a speed limit in
place. It's one of the worst regulations
ever. Um and then uh and then you know
then all the mythology was you can't
make an economic supersonic airplane but
it's just not true. So you're trying to
make how how do you make it economic?
Yeah. So so uh the first off I got to
make the airplane more efficient um so
the fairs can come way down so more
people can afford to fly. So instead of
a hundred seats uh and $20,000 each
overure is 64 seats and uh fair is more
like $5,000. In other words what people
already pay in business class today. And
there like tens of millions of people
who fly around in business class now uh
who so hate that flights are long that
they like, you know, pay extra for a bed
because they want to sleep through the
flight, right? Um but if you if you make
the flight twice as fast, you you can
have a much better bed than one at home
uh before you have to leave and you can
be awake on the airplane and have a nice
seat. And so that's kind of what makes
the economics work is uh uh get the
fairs down 64 seats so it's easy for
airlines to fill the seats not just on a
couple routes but on hundreds around the
planet um and then uh and then that can
that can work at scale like we think
we're going to have to build over a
thousand of these overure airliners and
that's just version one. There'll be a
version you know there'll be future
versions that are bigger with lower
fairs. There'll be future versions that
are smaller for private use. uh you know
overture one that's all business class
is really just the starting point. So is
the technology that you're developing
for these uh for these airplanes is it a
thousand small things that have made it
more efficient or is it one big leap or
is there sort of great Asian? So the
most shocking thing is we didn't really
invent anything. We're taking 20 year
old 78 Boeing 787 level technology and
uh and using it to build a supersonic
jet. So this is carbon fiber composite
airframe. This is digitally defined
aerodynamics. This is digital flight
controls. This is turbopan engines. We
didn't invent any of those things.
They've been around for a long time.
There's already regulatory approval
pathways for all these things. There's
supply chain for all these things. So
what you know what we did is we you know
we took this proven technology. Uh we
designed an airliner out of it and then
we shrunk that design down and we built
a prototype out of it. So that's what we
did you know earlier this year. We broke
the sound barrier uh with a one-/ird
scale, you know, prototype supersonic
jet uh built out of airliner ready
technology. Uh so now we're scale up,
build the airliner. So you you you don't
like the moon landings and you didn't
invent anything. Is that No, I'm just
kidding. I I mean No, no. I I I think
your point is really important which is
that the incremental improvements
combining what already exists into
something new is an act of creation. Is
that a fair statement? I think so. I
mean I I mean you know we are we're
inventing a new way to build a business.
We're inventing a new business model for
supersonic flight. You know there's
there there's a lot at that level
there's a lot of invention. Uh but I
think it's very reassuring for the the
public and for regulators that there's
that this thing is not built out of
unoptanium. Right. No, that that's um
you know it's it's very comforting to
hear that all of these tech that all the
component pieces are you know have have
track records. That's right. And I think
if by the way if you look at the
successful um you know hardware
companies that that have that have
started in the last couple decades they
all have this pattern like you know
people think of like SpaceX now and
they're like the crazy thing that is
Starship. That's not where they started.
They started with the Falcon 1, which
was like very conventional. The only
thing that was new was that it was built
by a new company. And you know, Tesla
started with a a Lotus Elise body and a
cell phone battery, right? Like like you
need the and now they do, you know,
crazy things, but um uh but if you want
to go create a new hardware business
from scratch, it actually makes a lot of
sense not to make a big technical bet on
day one. Yeah. Yeah, I mean you just say
a laptop is just a bunch of things from
a desktop jammed into a a different
case, but it's a fundamentally different
product.
So I I want to touch on Boeing because
it's something that I think has really
crystallized the challenge that America
faces. And what's so great about your
venture is that you are coming into I
don't know if you see yourself as a
competitor to Boeing or not or creating
a new um uh sort of path or or a new
part of an industry but uh but Boeing is
really I think on people's minds who are
thinking about aerospace and so um how
have Boeing's problems and challenges
and opportunities sort of changed the
environment for new entrance into
aerospace and changed the regulatory
environment? Yeah, I I think it's really
sad what's happened at Boeing. I mean,
this used to be just one of the great
American companies and they're still the
number one US exporter. Um they are
economically hugely important. National
security hugely important, but they've
so completely lost their way. I mean, it
has been more than 20 years since Boeing
has launched a new uh a new airliner.
More than 20 years. And like if if Apple
goes like 12 months without redesigning
the iPhone, people are like they can't
invent anymore. But like we, you know,
the number one US exporter stopped
building new products and they've only
done these tweaks and we've all read the
same headlines about how unsuccessful
the tweaks have been. Uh, and I I think
it's a I think it's a huge problem for
the country and I hope Boeing refineses
their way, but right right now like I
think as a country we've got all of our
eggs in the Boeing basket and it's got
like a hole in the bottom.
Um, so one of the new entrance into
aerospace is sort of a bunch of Chinese
companies or you could call it one
company, however you want to
characterize the Chinese system. Um, and
I am I think a lot of us are deeply
concerned about China. Um, but it's
undeniable that their recent industrial
model has delivered massive
manufacturing capacity and and
innovation. Um, so what is China doing
right that America could learn from? Um,
well, first off, I just want to paint
the the story. I don't think it's well
told. Uh I think we I think we know what
China did with, you know, consumer
electronics manufacturing and
semiconductors and we know what a
terrible situation that is now and how
hard it is to get back in the US after
we lost it. They're running the same
playbook in airplanes. Um they are uh
they're shipping a 737 clone right now.
They're working on a 787 clone and over
the weekend they announced they're
working on a supersonic jet clone too.
And uh and so uh we we are watching kind
of the slow motion Chinese takeover of
flight. Um uh and we are you know we
we've we are in real danger of seeding
American leadership there. Um but you
know I if I think about what's done
right um they've gotten out of their own
way. You know the the in the US we've
banned supersonic flight over land which
is why no one's done what we're uh what
we're doing at boom. you know, we were
kind of bold enough to start and say
we'll we'll find a way around that or
through it. Um uh but you know, when
when China launches a supersonic jet,
they don't have that 1970s regulation to
contend with. And so I think, you know,
I think a lot of innovation is held back
by being in our own
way. So as you I mean, I know there's
been a lot of discussions about how
America can make things again. And this
is this kind of started um I don't know
1015 years ago. and there's different
kind of moments when people have these
conversations. Um, have you noticed, you
know, you do a lot of fundraising. It's
very capital intensive business. Have
you noticed changes in the discussion
from financiers about what they're
willing to put money into and how
they're thinking about investment? Yeah,
I think I think the eyes are opening
that we have to re-industrialize America
and that there's huge, you know, there's
a huge amount of money be made in that
in that process. Uh, so that is, you
know, I I think it's it's much easier to
start a hardware business today than it
was for me 10 years ago really. um uh is
like a whole bunch of VCs now have
thesis around deep tech and hardware and
you know people have made money in
companies like SpaceX and Tesla and uh
uh and so it's starting to see this is
actually a viable thing. But it's also
becoming really clear how important it
is to the country. Uh like if we look at
how we won World War II, we didn't go
into World War II with a defense
industrial base. We went into World War
II with a commercial industrial base
that was the envy of the world. And you
uh Boeing pivoted and made bombers and
Ford pivoted and made tanks and uh
fighters and uh uh but yet right now the
commercial industrial base that we used
to have is in China and uh and so that
the the I think the most important thing
things like boom can do for the country
is to build a commercial industrial base
that could become the defense industrial
base if we needed it to be. So there's a
there's a little known story about the
Wright brothers where they spent the
first half of their lives inventing
aerospace and that what they did is
incredibly impressive as as inventors
and as thinkers. Um but they spent the
second half of their life involved in
patent litigation. Um yeah and I'm
wonder and that's why one of the reasons
the US invented aerospace but then
really wasn't building very much of it
until I think the 1930s or um so there's
this big gap. How do you think about the
auto industry didn't have that problem
because Henry Ford and the the car
companies didn't try to use that their
competitive advantage was different. It
wasn't IP. How do you think about IP in
your business?
Um we do a little bit of patenting stuff
just you know defensively and um because
it's it's weird if we don't have any IP
but but frankly I don't care about it.
Um like our comp our long-term
competitive strategy is always have the
best product um and just you know just
have the the highest possible rate of
invention. And you know my my dream is
that by the time any patent gets issued
you know it's already obsolete uh
because we've invented something much
better. Uh so so it's uh we don't we
don't spend hardly any effort on IP. We
spend a lot of effort on product roadmap
and and trying to figure how to build
new things much more quickly and more
efficiently. Well with that um I think
we're out of time but uh I am I am
cheering for you. It is so exciting I uh
to see what you're doing and uh thank
you so much. Well, thank
[Applause]
you. That was outstanding. Thank you.
Um, so we're going to mix up the uh
programming just a tad. Uh we're going
to have a founder demo from uh the folks
at Coupe. If you don't mind if I can the
screen. There we go. Um so AJ Foresight
is an entrepreneur best known for
founding IICrack, a global smartphone
repair network acquired by All State
Square Trade in 2019 and a YC company.
He studied psychology at California
Polytechnic State University and has
been involved in various business
ventures. In 2021, he founded Coupe, a
company focused on integrating smart
technology into backyard chicken coops
to support sustainable food production.
Jordan Barnes is the founder and chief
marketing officer of Coupe, a company
that integrates smart technology into
backyard chicken coops. Before
establishing Coupe in 2021, Barnes spent
over a decade in Silicon Valley
contributing various technology
ventures. She has extensive experience
in consumer technology and international
business development. Barnes is also an
experienced chicken keeper which has
informed her work at Coupe. Please give
it up for Jordan and AJ.
[Applause]
Uh it's very hard to follow a supersonic
aircraft company, but we're we're going
to try sharp pivot. Yeah. Let's get
hooked up here really quick.
might have to press accept.
Take it out. Okay, cool. Uh I can
probably start without the slide deck.
Um so Luther gave a great introduction.
Um so the the purpose of coupe is uh how
do we blend AI and smart home technology
with uh backyard agriculture and present
and um and so like the goal of the
company is building the world's largest
decentralized food production network. I
think we've seen uh specifically like in
the last six months with eggflation just
how like crazy uh everything is. Um we
can jump on Yeah. Now we're getting it.
We're getting it. Uh yeah. So like I
think we all understand like the price
of eggs is has been insane. And uh so
this year our customers will generate uh
between 3 to four million eggs from
their backyard. Each coupe uh generates
about 1,500 eggs. The average American
needs about 290 eggs a year. And uh
we're going to go over how we're using
AI to make it like super easy for anyone
with a backyard to raise chickens. Um
hi, I'm Jordan. I'm co-founders with AJ,
also full tilt chicken person. So
obviously eggs are it's pretty saturated
topic right now. We're on the third
round of Aven in a couple years, but
it's something people are talking about
and we believe and we see that it's
really changing. um there's a widespread
different perspective on food and it's
really a tangible moment for people and
so this has been it's really timely
topic for um a lot of these discussions.
Uh totally and so uh what what coupe
primarily is is we use battery powered
cameras uh to like monitor everything
that's going on in your backyard at any
time. So we're contextually looking at
uh are there predators? How many
chickens do you have? Do you have eggs?
has like uh we do like remote chicken
health monitoring and about 13 million
Americans raise chickens right now. It's
about 3% of uh households and our goal
is to get to 10%. And yes, this is about
chickens, but it's also not. We care
super deeply about people having power
over their plates and what does it mean
to have autonomy when it comes to your
plate, which sound which sounds like
cliche and visionary, but it's very
real. And so again, there's this
tangible moment happening and our
long-term goal and what really we
started Coupe is to just reconnect
people with dirt under their feet, food
on their plates using super smart tech
and really change the food systems. And
so I the problem is is like largecale
industrial farming. Uh it's centralized,
it's terrible for the animal health,
terrible for people that work there. Uh
and it's just not a good uh scalable
well, it's scalable, but it's not a good
system. I think people are waking up to
the idea that like you go to the grocery
store and your food's actually poisoning
you. And so we want like the end goal of
coupe is how do we enable anyone with a
backyard to actually start generating
their own both produce and uh protein.
And I don't think it's a debated topic
that we don't love big poultry as we
call them. And so there, you know, the
conditions are great. The the the
nutrition is garbage and there's another
way. And we want to make that super
accessible for anybody. You got a yard,
you can have chickens. And uh so like
average egg uh is about 45 to 60 days
old, travels about a thousand miles in
cold storage, uh comes from like uh
large scale farms that the average hen
has about one sheet of paper of space
and it's just like it's just not a good
system. Uh and then like backyard eggs
on a non-monoculture diet, so like food
scraps, bugs, uh grains, uh it's about
200% more uh nutritious value. Um, so,
okay, everyone, I'm going to do a quick
trivia to get people wake waking up
really quick. So, anybody know about the
secret three-digit code on the side of
every egg carton that's sold in the US?
Nobody. Oh, that you're the first person
who's ever known that. You get eggs. He
might be from Big Poultry. Yeah, maybe
you're from Big Poultry. I apologize.
Um, so there's a secret code that's um
it's for the day of the year. So January
1st is 1, 365 is December 31st, and it
is the day that the egg was handed off.
There's a lot of Well, I don't want to
waste our time. Come find me afterwards.
When you get home, check that
three-digit code, and that's uh how old
your eggs are in your fridge. You'll be
shocked. But uh let's get into the
technology, though. Um so, uh we worked
with the head designer or the original
designer of Nest, a guy named Fred Bold.
Uh and we designed a rotationally
molded, uh coupe. It has an automatic
door, two cameras, uh, and then we can
do smart alerts. So, we can say, "Hey,
Jordan, uh, your door is open. All four
hens are out. Uh, and you have eight
eggs that need to be collected."
Um, and, uh, we just trademarked this,
but it's a Esteein AI. Uh, this is like
what's running in the background always.
So, we've, uh, trained our model on
about 26 million videos. Uh, so we we
get like contextual clues of everything
that's happening. Um, so and it's
actually not just about chickens. Uh,
it's about like, hey, is your yard
underwatered? Is there a dog that is not
your dog? We know the difference between
if you have a dog or your neighbor's dog
or your dog, you can mark safe animals,
you can mark dangerous animals, and then
we give a bunch of uh alerts that are
like contextual what's going on with
your flock. So, the thesis is, you know,
the slide you saw before felt a very
familiar native iPhone experience. That
is what it feels delightful. It's smart
home tech. our our customer summates are
very familiar with this. But on the back
end, it's super sophisticated,
intelligent tracking, and it really
powers this ecosystem in your backyard
that makes it it's fun, delightful, but
it's also super it's super meaningful
and a really, you know, meaningful part
of your life.
Um, so this gives like a little bit more
context of like what our cameras are
seeing and doing in the back end. Uh, so
it's like, hey, there's giving
confidence ratios of like, hey, what
eggs need to be collected, what animals
are in the frame. Uh what's crazy is we
now know the difference between let's
say you have 10 hens. We know the
difference between hen one through 10
and we can say like hey Henrietta hasn't
had water in uh six hours. You might
want to check her out. Uh and so it's
it's kind of like AI for chicken
tracking. Uh so this is like what we're
doing on the on the back end. Uh we do a
bunch of local processing and then we
send it up to run inference on it and
then we uh push a new model uh about
once a week. Uh, and it's like it's
actually like hardcore technology, but
from a customer standpoint, you should
never familiar and delightful. And what
um, you know, a lot of AI models can
they can do detection that's not super
sophisticated, but they do they fail in
real world environments often. Ours it
it has logic. It really thinks and so if
it detects a raccoon, but it also knows
that all chickens are inside and the
door is closed, it can assign a really
high confidence safety score to that. So
it's not just detecting, it's seeing,
okay, this is safe or it is not. And if
it's not, it can activate an alarm. So,
it doesn't just detect and see an
object. It reasons and it thinks and it
acts, which is uh what one of our
customers this morning, they had a bear
attack their coupe last night and it's
like, "Hey, all all chickens are safe,
but uh there's a black bear outside, so
just heads up."
Just heads
up. There's a little more deeper context
about, you know, the this is obviously
not as valuable to when we're talking to
our consumers. It's just like, "Oh, I
got cool egg alerts and oh, I have fresh
eggs to collect. I can go make an
omelette." But this is really what we've
um poured all of our investment and all
of our focus into is really building
this context awareness based in real
world backyards. And that you know
really allows us to scale and change
backyard food. Yeah. With with the goal
of like decentralizing like I want
millions of homes generating billions of
eggs uh and disrupting that supply
chain. Uh we're just about to push uh
produce which we haven't um
which we haven't talked about publicly.
So this is great.
Um uh so actually back to
decentralization, we're going to enable
all of our customers uh that wouldn't
normally be chicken keepers to generate
eggs and then we'll do partnerships with
large retailers to sell into them. And
we're in some retailers right now but
through a different lens just for
selling our coups. But this is a really
interesting we talk you know farm to
table is not new but there's not it's
it's not that crazy to think about what
backyard to retail could look like as
well and how I mean we have 36 chickens.
We have eggs coming out of our ears.
What, you know, I can only give so much
to my grand next door neighbor. And so
what does that look like when these
don't have to travel a hundred miles to
a distributor, then sit on a truck?
That's a completely different system.
It's it's big vision thinking, but it's
pretty it's not that crazy. Like hyper
local distribution where you're buying
your produce and protein from your uh
neighbors essentially or or you're
generating it yourself. Uh so we're
launching other verticals uh because
like the model actually doesn't really
care about chickens. Chickens is just a
one or a zero. Um so we're launching uh
produce, ducks, goats, rabbits. Uh and
about 20% of our customers are currently
doing that uh as it is. I don't think
uh I think we're This wasn't supposed to
be in there. We have 10 seconds left.
This is from the space pitch we just
did. Yeah. to the uh like the the reason
Jordan and I started the company is uh
like I want to like we build
decentralized food production here using
semi-autonomous uh like production
systems and AI and then uh we partner
with SpaceX to feed all the people to
like build all the food production
systems for future colonies. So this
actually isn't a joke like this is the
goal of the company which is going to be
awesome. This wasn't supposed to be in
there. So thank y'all. Yay. Grace
chickens everyone.
[Applause]
That's for sure.
Are techno optimism and populism
incompatible? That's what our next
conversation is going to
explore. Silicon Valley's tech optimism
uh is going to really meet the populist
backlash in this provocative panel. Um,
there are techno optimists like myself,
Y Cominator CEO Gary Tan, who advocate
for antitrust enforcement while
championing technologies transformative
power. And populists can often diverge
on how far those checks can go. Um, this
panel features Steve Bannon, who needs
no introduction, and Roit Chopra, the
progressive former CFPB director and
former FTC commissioner, um, who is a
protege of Senator Elizabeth Warren. um
ideological opposites who've criticized
tech power, including Elon Musk's
attempts to undermine the CFPB.
Moderated by Josh Green, who's written
books on both Bannon and left populists
like Warren. This discussion, we hope,
will explore whether technology truly
empowers everyday people or perpetuates
monopoly power? Can populists and techno
optimists find common cause in
challenging big tech's dominance, or are
these visions fundamentally
incompatible? Please welcome Stephen
Rohead.
and
[Applause]
Joshua. Hey everybody,
thank you all for being here. You ready
to get going?
I'm coming right after you. No, Josh,
let's slow down. Yeah. All right. This
is too fast. Uh, as we look at I thought
Bloomberg was supposed to move fast.
We're moving right. We're moving fast.
Already written articles in the last
month uh quoting uh Rohead and Steve. So
I feel like I'm up to speed and now I
want to get you guys up to speed too. Uh
looking ahead to this new Trump era. Uh
I wanted to start off by asking you both
uh about an idea that was written up in
the Atlantic yesterday that I think has
big implications for what tech and
antitrust policy uh might look like in
the years ahead. Uh the article
suggested there's been a fusion uh on
the right between MAGA nationalists like
Steve and big tech barons like Elon
Musk, Peter Teal uh and Mark Andre uh
all in opposition to this uh spectre of
wokeness that people on the right are so
worked up about. But the article goes on
to suggest that big tech is actually the
one in the driver's seat and that folks
like Steve are, and I'm quoting the
article here, political sucker fish
riding a whale. Uh my question for you,
Steve, is this true? Are you in the MAGA
crowd beholden to big tech? Or does Elon
Musk's humiliation in Wisconsin last
night begin to weaken his political
standing and his influence on policy in
the Trump presidency? Are you assuming
that someone spends $20 million and goes
where a cheese head on a stage and
bounces around is
humiliated?
Um, okay. The fusion, the whole fusion
crap is pushed by the tech oligarchs.
You know why? They fear populism. They
fear economic nationalism. If we have,
we're in a co we admit we're in a
coalition. It is a coalition. But
there's a much higher probability
that we will have fusion with certain of
the ideas of Ro roit and particularly
Lena Khan and others that have fought uh
you know monopolies have fought
oligarchs for years and I think that's
where the fusion is going to come the um
one of the biggest scourges in our
country are these oligarchs the lords of
easy money on Wall Street the
corporatist and particularly the aparite
state of Silicon Valley and it's a huge
problem and yes we're in an un very
uneasy coalition, but it is a coalition.
They were some of them quite central to
our victory in November and they were
also central to our let's say there's a
huge defeat last night uh on the uh in
the Supreme Court race in Wisconsin. So
my question then is if is that you agree
with that? Yeah, I think so. I think if
you look at the
first Trump term, you know, at at the
Federal Trade Commission, for
example, every single time you really
saw the Republicans on the
FTC speaking from a different HIMYM book
than Trump. They were pro-Chinese
manufacturing. They were pro- big tech.
They were pro- big pharma. And then you
saw others who were really trying to
fight against a lot of that money. And
now we think Silicon Valley used to be
lots and lots of little tech and is it
going to stay that way or is it just
going to be owned by these six dudes and
Zuckerberg can, you know, wear whatever
chains he want. But I think at the end
of the day, if they control this whole
system, there's big trouble for our
country. You're not going to burrow out.
you're not gonna start going to UFC
fights and uh no the fusion no the
fusionism is pushed by we're in a
coalition the fusionism they want us to
be subservient to their interest in teto
feudalism and we're not going to do that
the power we still have here and the
difference in in the first term we've
now evolved this party to be truly a
working class and middle class party and
the Democrats have kind of lost that or
lost focus on it they become the
credential class and we need to drive
this point home that's what we're
building a bigger coalition. And I think
if we do our job and somehow we can keep
them together in an uneasy coalition,
although I don't know if that's
possible, we can build a uh we can
redefine politics like in 1932. We're at
that inflection point that is upon us to
do it. And things like last night
obviously are a big setback. Looking
ahead at the policy landscape though, if
Elon and the Six Bros are uh
representing big tech, who who if anyone
is standing up for little tech in the in
the Trump administration? I think you've
got a lot of people. I mean, I think
you've got we've got our new one of our
new FTC uh commissioners are here.
Mark's here. Uh you got our viceroy.
Where's Mike Davis? The fire breather
Mike Dav uh Mike Davis is a fire
breather for the unpopulous side. If you
look in the justice department, right,
tomorrow I'm going to be over there at
justice with Omid and others. Gail
Slater. I mean, we have Look, I think
Lena Khan is one of the most important
political figures in this country. And I
think if she had been listened to more
by Democrats, they would actually been
more competitive against us in November
of 2024. But I think you have a lot of
people that I would call
neandiscians that actually see the
danger of concentration of massive
concentration of personal wealth and
power uh to government power. And look,
let's be blunt.
That was all caused by the Democrat and
most progressive elements of the
Democratic party. The bailouts on Wall
Street in 2008, which which were
unacceptable, and the kind of Fouian
bargain given to the big six dudes to
essentially say you're going to have
monopolistic power. Um, but you we'll
make a deal with you. You have to be at
the cutting edge of that because we're a
hedgeimon. You have to be have the
commanding heights of
technology. Tik Tok shows you they've
blown it on social media. And quite
frankly, Deep Seek, whether it's a
Chinese SCOP or if it's real, shows you
that their method, right, which they
threw climate change overboard, all that
overboard for this mass power of uh of
AI is wrong. And now what do they want?
They want a bailout. They want a $500
billion Mercury program or Marshall
Plan, however they call it, and they
want us to turn the national labs over
to them. Absolutely. Right. So these
guys, they have an unsatiable appetite
for money and power and it's got to be
stopped. And they want to hand over a
playbook that is really Europe's
playbook from the 40s about trying to
have a a click of corporate royalty that
we're supposed to help the entire time.
I thought America built all of this
because we made sure there was little
companies challenging these big guys and
running them out of business when
they're doing something better. So, I
think this is the jump ball right now.
We see it in a few different places, but
if they hollow out and defund some of
these enforcers, they're not going to be
able to go. Hold on. Let me ask you
about that because you you are we taking
Are we taking this over? Are you going
to get some water into this? No, no, no.
I I I want to spice this up a little bit
cuz you you sound like you're half
asleep. Um Ru, you you
you were recently on the receiving end
of the Trump Musk policy approach and so
I'm imagining your view of of of Trump's
approach is a little less rosy when it
comes to big tech than maybe Steve's is.
You told me at time for a Bloomberg post
I wrote, quote, "Defunding the police
that watch over Wall Street and big tech
will cost consumers billions of
dollars." What's the case you'd make to
folks like Steve and Republicans on the
right for why a robust enforcement
uh regime is necessary? Well, look,
Steve mentioned the bailouts. I think
this a lot of what our discourse is
today, whether we know it or not, comes
from the financial crisis. Amen. And the
big giveaways to those who are already
powerful. In what planet can you
mismanage your business so badly and go
on the other side and become bigger and
more powerful? That's exactly what
happened in 2008. So I really think look
it is really it is a jump ball in so
many places. When Musk and the whoever
took over the
CFPB, the one of the first people they
fired were the tech people, the ones who
were doing the investigations of big
tech companies creating currency. They
were the ones who were trying to make
sure there was open tech so that small
companies could challenge big banks. So,
we're going to see a fight on both
sides, I think. But I don't know how
it's going to turn out if they keep
getting rid of the watchd dogs and just
expect these agencies to be lap dogs.
Okay. So, I want to dig in a little bit
more uh on this idea of of a struggle
between big tech and little tech. Uh how
it might play out in the Trump years.
And I want to provoke you both a bit um
by offering some historical context.
Richard
Nixon famously wanted his justice
department to threaten investigations of
the major t TV networks in order to
obtain friendlier coverage. Perhaps a
precursor uh to Trump's later threats
against big tech. On the Nixon tapes, we
hear him saying uh a DOJ investigation
quote gives us one hell of a club, a
sort of damocles, uh Nixon called it, to
coersse favorable coverage. Steve, is
that Trump's real aim here? just a
friendlier Facebook and a defanged
Washington Post or are there real
populist instincts um that that might
lean against the power of some of the
big tech companies? I think look, it's
obviously, you know, something that's
being worked out through the Trump
administration. Like I said, we're a
coalition. There's definitely voices on
big tech. They have every lobbyist in
this town, every law firm in this town.
Let's say it's a rigged system. System
is totally rigged. If you want to go up
against big tech now, I'm going to tell
you how tough. Could you talk to him
personally about this? Here here's what
I think is Here's one of the things I
think is important is our going after
the big law firms. We're we're trying to
go after the machinery that has this
system set up to go after the big law
firms. I think we have to go after the
big investment banks, the big hedge
funds, the money center banks. You have
to go after all of them and and
basically, you know, play smashmouth
because they play play smashmouth with
you. This system is run by money and
power. It's run by oligarchic centers in
both Wall Street, the corporatist and
Silicon Valley. And we're just not going
to change it overnight. And there is a
struggle. I mean, you have I would
submit to you that and if you read the
the front two pages of the remedy
section in the Google case and see where
our justice department's coming out, it
kind of stuns me of how
antirust the people we've put in. I
mean, people know I'm a a big admire
Alina Khan. I don't think we've made
that big a shift. I would love to have
her back. I think she'd be terrific. But
it's we're just a difference in degree,
not so much in kind of what we put in
place today. And I think you're going to
see tough antirust action taking place.
That's why I think Wall Street's not
enamored. They didn't see the big wave
of M&A and M&A fees coming. So, this is
all but it's always going to be a
struggle. It's who's going to be able to
have muscle politically. In in Florida
six, we were down three points. Uh I
think up to two weeks ago when our show
got involved, Breitbart got involved. We
got our grassroots volunteers out. You
know, Scott Jennings on CNN makes a very
important point about as we've reshaped
this party to be more workingass and in
in middle class. We also are dependent
upon low propensity voters, low
propensity, lower information. It's not
they're not degreed or not dumb by low
information. They're just not interested
in politics, right? These people
basically come up for Trump. We have to
have a massive grassroots effort every
time to get them out. Scott's absolutely
correct and this is one of the reasons
we won in Florida six has got it out. So
the power we have to what they called
them suckerfish. Yeah. We have to
deliver you know mass amounts of
grassroots right who are basically
entrepreneurs right the little guy the
little shopkeepers the the the workers.
We have to deliver that and we have to
deliver it consistently. But I think
you're starting to see that that that we
did win. shouldn't be lost. We did win
overwhelmingly the voter ID in in
Wisconsin last night, although we lost
we lost I think we got blown out. I
mean, since I've known you, you've been
really outspoken. You just mentioned it
now, about the power of money in
politics, and I'm interested in how that
applies to tech and antitrust policy.
What is there evidence you can point me
to that Trump is serious about pursuing
a crackdown he's talked about in the
past? Yes, I won't be bought off by
inauguration. Look at the FTC. We're
holding It's Listen, it's a Bologania
documentary. We're in an imperial
capital that the populist nationalist
movement did not create. Okay? This is
an empire exactly what the revolutionary
generation and the framers and the
founders of our nation warned us
against, we evolved into. If the if the
revolutionary generation of framers came
back, they said they'd spit on the floor
with how we've allowed this country to
evolve. And so this our movement is
relatively young in having political
power. But look at look at our justice
department. Look at the look at some of
the commissioners we're putting on
there. These people are almost as big a
fire breathers as Rahee and Lena Khan.
That's what I think is so shocking. Is
is the personnel the real focus that you
personnel's policy in this town, right?
Particularly working. Go back and read.
Look at what we're doing at Google both
in the courts in Northern Virginia and
in DC. read, you should definitely want
to read the summary that um um the folks
wrote. It's quite powerful and I think
it shows you the the beginning of a
framework of what I would call a
populist nationalist idea about antirust
and about the about taking on taking on
taking on these oligarchs. Let me ask
you, like people don't think of you as
this necessarily, but you were actually
in a in a manner of speaking a two-time
Trump official because you served in the
Trump FTC and you had and you had a long
and glorious what was it like 7-day run
as director of CF 13. 13. Oh, that's
that's more than a scaramucci. So you
look, but you in in all seriousness,
you've had, it seems to me, a variety of
experiences with with Trump and his
policy impulses when it comes to
antirust and other things. I remember uh
you were at FTC uh when they first went
after Facebook. Uh you did some some
cracking down on companies that had
abused uh the Made in America label, I
remember that Republicans were against,
but I believe Trump spoke out in favor
of that. Um so you've you've seen all
sides of the man. I mean, how how
serious do you think he is about
pursuing an agenda that would really
police big tech and and and stand up for
little tech companies, a lot of whom
don't think they really have a voice?
Well, I'm not I'm not his therapist or
psychoanalyst, but I guess I'd say this.
When you actually look at the
people, the people that were put on the
Federal Trade Commission in
2018, most of them were voting with big
pharma, big tech, those guys. Over time,
you saw some shifts.
We ended up voting out the Facebook
complaint, two Democrats, one Republican
against two very pro monopoly
Republicans. So, we'll see how it plays
out. There are some warning signs. I
have no idea why they would fire Well, I
was going to say the two federal trade
commissioners when you fire the
Democrats from the Well, it's also like
why fire them? They're the ones who are
also on board with going after some of
this concentrated power, standing up for
little companies, for little
pharmacists, for little grocerers, and
the list goes on and on. I don't know
what that was about, but I think this is
now the question. Are we going to see a
repeat of 2018 or is Steve going to be
right that there's going to be some big
change? See, I think that's an evolution
of our party. I think we're getting more
populist and more nationalist. Look at
16 we we came out of nowhere to win.
We've had in those four years that
interregnum President Trump and you see
the relationships he built and who who
he's put in. People should understand I
am banned on every platform. I'm banned
in perpetuity on Facebook on YouTube.
We're yeah Twitter um Spotify. I can go
through every I'm banned the show is the
number one or number two podcast in the
country essentially. You know if you
look at Pod Save America we're generally
in back of them. I'm banned everywhere.
I was
debanked after January after we uh after
President Trump went back to Mara Lago.
All my banks fired me. All my law firms
fired me. I had bigname law firms all
fired me. All my credit cards were
cancelled. I went to federal prison.
Right? I've seen the power of the state.
And you know what I say to them? Go
yourself. Right? We're going because you
have to. Otherwise, they're out to crush
you. Don't think I'm any different than
any of you guys. You raise your head up
against the apparatus and they're going
to do the exact same thing to you. This
is why I think there's much more
commonality. The potential fusion I
think we do have is much deeper behind
the scenes and much deeper as we get
back to actually what is populace, what
is economic nationalism, how do you
defend the little guy, how you defend
the entrepreneur, how do we get back to
our entrepreneurial roots as a country,
right? And it's a struggle and we're not
going to agree on everything culturally.
We're not going to agree on everything
politically. But when I look at the
battlefield, I feel pretty good. I feel
that there's a natural reaction to to
the Facebooks and to the Silicon Valley
crowd and to the Wall Street crowd. So,
I think there's I think there's uh I
think there's a great future for
populism, how we define it, and economic
nationalism. Let's let's broaden the
aperture a little bit beyond the US.
Steve, you've been quite active in
supporting populist right-wing causes,
uh not just here, but across the globe
and in Europe. Uh Trump has too uh
supporting uh populist politicians. In
December when he nominated Gail Slater,
he said, quote, "Big tech has run wild
for years, stifling competition uh in
our most innovative sector." I think he
posted that on True Social. Given that
Europe is grappling with many of the
same policy issues in regard to big
tech, do you support and should Trump
support the EU's efforts to crack down
uh on big players like Apple and Google
in an effort to open up markets
overseas?
I do agree with trying to trying to uh
stop these people anywhere we can
because I think they got too much power.
I would like to see instead of you know
you have 75 electric vehicle companies
but you have one search company right we
should have a 100 search companies we
should have you know Facebook we should
have 100 alternatives it the only thing
that holds me back about the Europeans
is that there's no more corrupt system
than the EU and what they do right these
are still the it's still the monarchists
it's still the aristocracy right that
most of our families you know many
generations ago came away from this is
why so detest uh the established order
in Europe and I'm a big supporter of
kind of these right-wing populist
nationalists which each one's different,
right? And each one's got its own
characteristics as it should in these
countries, but we have a long fight over
there. Look, it shouldn't be lost
anybody. They try to put Trump in prison
for 300 years. Balsinaro's on trial for
his life. They're going to find him
guilty in the show trial. They're
putting him in a prison. He's going to
be assassinated or they're going to
attempt to assassinate him. And and Le
Pin, he's up by 20 points in the poll.
and they're putting uh Le Pen now has a
four-year prison sentence and can't run
for re-election. And that that may all
be worked out, but that is what this
kind of judicial what I call
insurrection uh is is coming against the
populist right and we have to just power
through it. I don't think we should
outsource anything to Europe. But I will
say this, when they've been doing all
their committees after their laws, the
people who are actually going and using
that process to challenge big
gatekeepers from squelching them out are
a lot of a little American companies
because they want access to that market
too. So I don't know, but we that
doesn't mean we shouldn't do our own
work here. We should not allow, you
know, Facebook's Libra currency scheme
to come back again. We should not have
these new types of dollars that big tech
companies control and can wall everyone
out of. We should be passing laws and
doing work here in Washington in every
single state. And there are so many
issues where I think there's a lot of
agreement. child and teen privacy and
exploitation of them, counterfeit goods
and labeling. I mean, the list goes on
and on. And the big tech companies have
fought every single step of the way, and
we should fight against that. Okay. It's
liberation day. I'm sure you all have
have have heard. Um, I' I'd love to get
a preview from Steve, but what I really
want to uh ask you about is can the US
and Europe effectively regulate tech
companies at the same time that they're
waging a trade war? Or will Trump wind
up inadvertently helping big tech in an
effort to jam the EU?
Um, I I think they're I think they're
kind of two separate things. I think
today, and I think in the Rose Garden of
four, we're going to find out. I'm not
so sure a decision's been made. I I
mean, I'm for reciprocity and I realize
there's some legal issues with that
because I want to expose to the world
how we've been taken advantage of by the
political class in the United States,
the globalist in on Wall Street with
these uh with these trade relationships
with people that we pay for their
defense that have hosed hosed us for
decade after decade after decade and
that all rolls down to the little guy.
So, I'm for reciprocity and tough
reciprocity. I don't think that may
happen. I think there may be some tiered
of 20% some tiered system which will be
fine and they'll use uh the emergency
measures to implement that but I think
we have to
uh think about and focus on bringing
high value added manufacturing jobs back
here to the United States and not
assembly jobs. You know the guys at Ford
 and moan all the time, well we
manufacture all this and we're going to
lose a billion dollars. No you don't.
You assemble. We need to bring high
value added manufacturing jobs back here
to the United States of America. People
say we we're manufacturing more than
ever and there's four there's 400,000
unpaid. No, we assemble. We need to
manufacture here. We need to rebuild the
greatness of our industrial base and we
can do it. At the same time, we have to
break up tech and uh and and and give
more access to capital entrepreneurs. We
can do all that. This is none of this.
The Republicans when I first got into
the politics here with Andrew Breitbart
12 14 years ago, this kind of Austrian
school of economics and all this, it was
like they thought it was part it was a
natural property. They they thought this
was was like the second law of
thermodynamics. It's not. It's all human
agency. We've proven this in this
populist movement and getting people
engaged and involved. The little guy
who's engaged and involved now in
politics. So we can do this and we can
build a system that's closer to the
American plan that Alexander Hamilton
and and the great founders of our
country set up in the 19th century that
we can recreate here and become a
economic superpower. A true economic
superpower based upon people not that
what in the last 6 months the top 1%
have accreted another $4.5 trillion
dollars of wealth to themselves more
than gone to the bottom 50%.
We have a capitalist system, our
quoteunquote capitalist system with no
capitalist. And that's what we have to
change. And we can change. All of this
can be done. Don't think we have to take
down the system. And to do that, you
have to be relentless. You have to be
prepared to be banned, to be debanked,
to be uh shut out, and to go to prison.
If you're not prepared to do that,
you're not to prepare to take on the
system and win. We're getting back to
the question of Europe. Is is Trump
willing to let the EU crack down on
American companies like Google, like
Apple, or will he dig in his heels and
and want to retaliate? I I I Well, I
don't think it's going to be retaliation
against that. I think it's going to be
retaliation against uh manufacturing and
the German car companies and all that.
You don't think you don't think that
bleeds over into tech policy
to a degree, but I don't think we'll
see. Also, the big big ticket item is on
China. Yeah. So we'll right now you have
a lot of the largest tech giants
saying you need to listen to us and
favor us to compete with China. I think
if anyone gets distracted by that
argument, we are in trouble. But here
here's the here's the horrible thing of
that argument. Their failure in being
given the Fouian pact of allowing them
to become oligarchs. They failed in they
failed in social media. Clearly, they're
not as good and they failed in AI. They
want a bailout at least$500 billion
dollars and the national labs would be
turned over them. They also put the gun
to your head and say, "Hey, you can't
regulate us now because you need
national champions because the Chinese
Communist Party has a fleet around
Taiwan. That's a struggle we're going to
have to go through and we can't we
cannot agree to that. We can't agree to
bailout. We can't agree to turning the
national labs over to them, the weapons
labs for AI. And we certainly can't
genulect as as you're so rightly
pointing out about the the issue with
the Chinese Communist Party. Uh Roit,
Democrats have been sponded uh by the
results of the November election. Uh um
with with the exception of uh last
night's victory in Wisconsin. It's it's
been a pretty rough ride. Uh yeah, a
number of folks I talked to do see
glimmers uh of hope on the antitrust
front uh with the nomination of Gail
Slater. other folks we've talked about
um what are your thought I you've talked
a lot about this idea of a populist
cross party alliance how what are your
thoughts on that how realistic do you
think it
is as you look ahead at the landscape
over the next couple of years and uh you
know as as somebody who's worked under
Trump who's who's clashed with Elon uh
who thinks a lot about the policy issues
at the heart of all this are you hopeful
are you are you despondent well how how
should people think about this I mean
look I I'm happy that some of them are
using the policy ideas developed by Lena
Khan and others who really came and
started and lit a match on all of this.
And if that is leading others to change
good, I just want to go back to I still
think it comes down to you saw anger
across the board after the Wall Street
bailouts, Occupy Wall Street, Tea Party,
the whole thing. Most people yesterday
in Congress, every single Republican
except nine of them voted to like raise
over draft fees for people. There is
maybe going to be agreement on certain
places, but right now those big
oligarchs and big corporate royalty are
still calling the shots in Washington.
Do you disagree with that? No. They own
this city. If you try to go for them
legally, you can't get a law firm
because they hire the law firms. They
have all the lobbyists. They have
tremendous power in Capitol Hill. That's
why our movement is in this very early
stages. And with President Trump at the
top of the ticket, we can win national
elections as it proved last night since
we have low propensity voters. We built
those low propensity voters. I'm the
first to admit we have a tough time
otherwise. And we have to build an
apparatus that can do that. But it's
going to come from I think it was one in
only one in the Senate. Josh Holly I
think is the only person that voted only
Republican. So, we have a ton of work to
do. I'm not sure so many of the elected
officials in the House or the Senate are
populist economic nationalists. There
still were still run in a neoliberal
neocon
uh mentality. But I think I believe and
you look at Stler, you look at yourself,
Leo Khan, I believe since I would posit
the Democratic party in the official
apparatus of it abandoned you guys who
had some great ideas. great ideas that
we as populist nationalists are getting
a whole team to hopefully implement at
least some of them that there's much
more that fusion to me is more important
than the fusion with the big tech bros
but we have to deal with political
reality as we have it right now but our
our party is only going to become more
workingass and more middle class and I
think that'll tend to the fusion our
time has taken down um uh but Trump also
got rid of populists like uh Roit so
Roit you know Steve's talked a lot about
the the positive idea of an alliance,
but just as a last question, what's the
worst case scenario for you? What do you
what do you stay up at night worrying
about?
Uh, note that we only have 90 seconds.
Well, to me, I I'm actually I'm not
crying and despondent. All of us are
working on how we figure out how to
reclaim power and to actually make sure
that this economy is working. And I
think that we'll see if anyone in this
administration will do it. I'm going to
be watching on big mergers like Capital
One Discover. I'm going to be watching
like Steve is saying the Google case,
Facebook case. There's some places where
I'm going to be watching really closely
to see um but I really hope that this is
the the status quo is so broken and just
we need to move and turn the page. You
know, Jade Sherman said yesterday
because I've been a huge proponent of
this tax extension of the taxes that
given where we are with cuts that have
to be made or just not going to be made
given the financial situation of having
to refinance all this debt and the and
what it's the burden is putting on
working-class middle class people that I
don't see any scenario that we can
extend the tax cuts for the upper
bracket. It can't happen. And Jay
Sherman went around yesterday and I love
Jake Sherman. I think he's fantastic. He
said he couldn't find one representative
in the Republic side. They they laughed
at the idea. They laughed the idea. Chip
Roy came on War Room this morning and
absolutely agreed with me and says
behind the scenes there a lot of people.
The litmus test for me early on besides
all the great work the guys at Justice
Department are doing on on Google and
other things like that and the FTC is
this tax situation. If the wealthy are
not prepared to help us get control of
spending, particularly defense spending,
and actually align defense spending with
our hemispheric defense that President
Trump has laid out, the defense budget
has to be cut. And I say this as a guy
that spent eight years as a naval
officer. My daughter went to West Point.
I'm not a dove. The defense budget's out
of control. It has to be cut right
before you touch anything else. And we
have to raise taxes. We cannot cut
extend the tax cuts for the wealthy.
their taxes have to increase. All right,
on that note, let's wrap it up. Thank
you both. Thank you guys for listening.
[Applause]
Oh, might might as well just hook yours
up.
Okay.
So, please give a warm welcome to Trevor
Mckendendrick. He's the chief executive
officer and founder of Sace. Uh Trevor
Mckendendrick. He uh Seace is a fintech
company offering banking services for
Spanish speaking individuals uh in the
in the US. Uh, prior to he was chief of
staff at the Lambda School and founder
of Salem Software, which created popular
Spanish language Bible study app. Fluent
in Spanish, Mckendendrick holds degrees
in accounting from Brigham Young
University and is dedicated to
addressing the financial needs of
Spanish-sp speakaking immigrants. He
also shares his entrepreneurial insights
through his newsletter, how it actually
works. One of our most exciting founders
at White Cominator. Thank you for being
here, Trevor. Please give it up.
Thank you for having me. Nothing like
going after two of the most feared men
in Washington DC. Um, today I'm here to
talk about the Zel cartel. Um, if you
haven't heard about it, uh, it's a thing
that went down literally yesterday. And,
uh, I'm here to talk about how it
prevents competition, especially with
FinTech and some of the smaller banks in
the United States. Um, yeah, my founder
demo is going to be about
anti-competitive behavior today. Thank
you for that.
And one of the things that people don't
realize is that um Zel is owned by the
largest seven American banks in the
United States. And I'm going talk a
little bit about that too. Before I get
into it, uh quick introduction. I am the
CEO of Sace. Uh we do financial products
in Spanish for US Spanish speakers. Uh
no, I am not Hispanic. Uh but I did live
in Mexico for a long time and founded
another Spanish speaking company uh
before this. And uh our website is all
in Spanish, but I'll translate for you.
Uh we offer debit cards, credit cards
for Hispanic immigrants the first day
they get into the United States. Uh they
can start building their credit score,
get their first checking account. Very
easy to do it with
us. And we have over half a million
customers uh spending more than $400
million a year on their safe debit cards
and credit cards. Uh and over $2 billion
in annual transaction volume. Uh but
enough about us. Let's talk about the
zel cartel.
So, for those that don't know, Zel lets
you send instant payments between banks.
Uh, this doesn't sound like a novel
thing, but in the United States uh,
financial infrastructure, this is a big
deal that doesn't really exist u too
much outside of zel. And crucially, Zel
is owned by the largest seven American
banks, Wells Fargo, PNC, Capital 1,
Chase, US Bank, Bank of America, and
Truist. They set Zel up intentionally to
compete with the companies like Cash App
and Venmo when those companies started
to get
traction and it is the biggest instant
payment network which I think is
underappreciated. So you've all used
Venmo, you've all used Cash App, you
might have heard of RTP, you might have
heard of Fed Now that launched in the
last couple of years. All of the volume
of those four networks combined is less
than the transaction volume that Zel
puts through their system every year. So
zel last year did over a million uh
excuse me over a trillion dollars in
transaction
volume. And the way that this used to
work until yesterday was that any
fintech and any bank in the United
States could participate in the zel
system via their standalone app. Sois
customers for example take their safe
debit card throw it into the zel app and
then they're in the zel network they're
and they can send people and to anyone
else that is on that's on zel.
So, what happened
yesterday? Zel shut down this app
literally yesterday, April 1st. You can
Google it. There's tons of news about
this, but they shut this thing down. And
this matters a lot because they control
who is on the network. Zel is saying no
fintech can now be on the zel network.
No fintech. Chime, Mercury, the Cash
App, the biggest institutions that you
would think would be a part of the, you
know, most widely used peer-to-peer
network in the United States can no
longer be on on zel. And it's not just
fintex, it's also small banks. Banks
have to pay a ton of money to be on the
zel network. And that's all controlled
and all determined by by the owners of
these banks. The seven largest of banks
determine how much do you have to pay to
be on zel. And they determine who can be
on the zel
network. Why does this matter? The
United States needs an instant payment
network that can go between banks. It
does not have that today. And it needs
to be something that is open that anyone
can
join. There's examples of this in other
countries that have done very well.
Brazil and India have their systems
doing almost $5 trillion in transaction
volume. This is a thing that has been
implemented in other places and the
United States doesn't uh does not yet
have
one. We've tried. Fed now hasn't seen
any adoption and RTB has stopped
growing.
But we kind of do. We have Zel. Zel is
the the largest piece of infrastructure
that does peer-to-peer payments today.
It is the most widely used. It is the
most uh frequently accessed by people uh
across all socioeconomic
levels. And in my opinion, Zel is now at
this point a public good. Why do we keep
trying to invest into Fed now into RTP
in these other networks to build this
public infrastructure when we already
have it? The seven largest banks own
this network. um the the the companies,
the banks that pay to be on the network
have to pay into those big banks. We
could do things differently. We could
lower the pricing. We can make it open
to everybody and we would have what
we've been trying to create for over 15
years now with RTP and Fed
Now. So, Zel should be available to all
financial institutions at fair prices,
including
FinTech. Thank you very much.
[Applause]
We will now begin a short lunch break.
We'll see you back here in about 25
minutes.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you could make
your way back. We're about to resume our
program. Please make your way back to
the seats. Thank you.
I'll join you.
Oh, Eric, good to see you. Good to see
you. Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah,
of course. Yeah. All
right. Wait a sec.
My view slide go.
If you'll uh please come in, please come
in and take your seats. We're about to
begin with the European uh executive
vice
president. Please come in and take your
seats.
[Music]
I think I'm just going to run out there.
Ladies and gentlemen, please take your
seats. Our program is about to begin.
Thank you.
What do you get?
Oh yeah.
Please come inside. The executive vice
president's about to uh uh have her
fireside chat. In the meantime, uh we
have our next uh founder talk from Matt
Bolos. He leads policy and safety at MBU
uh where he shapes the responsible
development of AI coding tools that
democratize software creation. His work
as at MBU focuses on ensuring AI
benefits are distributed fairly across
society. With combined expertise as both
a lawyer and a computer scientist, Matt
founded Canada's first autonomous online
legal service and is a Y cominator alum
from winter 21. Please give it up for
Matt.
Um actually we just leave this. Yeah.
Okay. Raise your hands if you know what
an AI agent
is.
Okay, keep your hands up if you're
excited about AI
agents. Okay, hands down.
Now raise your hand only if you would
share your most personal information,
financial, medical, whatever, with an AI
agent that was made by Google or
Meta. Okay, we have one hand, a man with
nothing to
hide. Okay, your mom calls. You love
your mom, but it's not a happy phone
call. She's got medical results that are
not good. It means that they're going to
be more visits to doctors, tests,
uh just the rides, managing the
medications, keeping her on
track. You remember you love your
mother, so you are going to help with
all of this, but it's going to be a lot
of work. You also
remember that you know how to code, and
a lot of these things are simple
coordination problems. You're going to
write the software and you'll be able to
figure out calendars, arrange an
appointment. This is great. So, you
start writing code and every time you
think you've solved the problem, you
bump up against the same wall. The
medical record system won't let you
access the system programmatically.
You've got to log in as a person as your
mom. You go look at the terms of use and
legally, even if you could get around
that, they're saying that you can't. You
try this again for ride share. You try
this again for every system and you
realize it doesn't matter that you can
actually solve this problem
programmatically and so you just go back
to doing things the oldfashioned way. If
I leave you with only one thing
today, I wanted to be that this is nuts.
This is not how it should be.
AI agents are here and they're
incredibly powerful and they can do a
lot of things, but unless they can
actually be used in our digital lives in
a meaningful way, we're going to
squander their power. So, we all know
Siri, it's janky. It's fun to make fun
of, but I want you to think about
Instagram and the Instagram feed because
that is an AI
agent. It works on its own. It takes
orders. They just don't happen to be
your orders. And so if we dig into it,
right, it has access to all of your
pictures, all of your friends. It keeps
track of everything that you do. And it
is committed heart and soul to keeping
you
addicted. That does not make any sense.
That's not the point of this sort of
power. And so what does it mean when
that becomes yours?
The second thing that I want to leave
you with is that a better future is
possible. At Imbu, we build agents that
you can control. Our systems allow you
to create your own software.
So this is the idea here is that we have
this paradigm of what an agent is where
that agent is something somebody has
built to go solve a problem for you.
Instead what we are saying is what if we
could just create the software for you
that will go solve the problem that you
have instead of depending on somebody
else having come up with that idea
beforehand. And this allows you then to
create software, to remix it, to share
it, and another digital world starts to
become possible because you can just
imagine anything that you want and you
can build that. And when that sort of
capability and power is available to
everyone, the digital world starts to
look completely different. From personal
use to enterprise, it's wide open. We're
not depending on others to build for us
when we can build for ourselves.
But the third thing that I want to leave
you with is that this future is not
guaranteed. At MBU, the thing we're
building is very
powerful. That does not keep me up at
night. But the thing that does keep me
up at night is whether or not the
platforms are going to cut off the
access that we need to our digital lives
in order to actually capture that power.
That means LinkedIn not letting you pull
the profile of the person you're about
to meet. It means Google Flights not
allowing your agent to build a complex
itinerary for you. It means your medical
record system not allowing you to pull
the details on your calendar so that you
can actually plan your day around the
thing. And when you do have that
appointment, it means that Whimo, Lyft,
Uber are not allowing you, your agent,
to be able to price shop for you, to be
able to figure out how you're actually
going to get to that
appointment. So, it's worth remembering
that being a monopoly is great for
business. It's a strangle hole. You have
the whole market, but it's also market
failure. And so the thing that we need
to understand are what are the
consequences of that market failure and
what can we do instead because when
these systems they surveil us they
censor us they limit our
choices and because of the hold that
they have we don't have available
alternatives in the face of all of these
things we have been
helpless and so we need to do
something that's much richer. AI agents
let us start to change that. But if the
wall gardens stay up, we're not going to
be able to take down this
structure. Fourth, the single most
powerful thing that we can do is to
establish rights of interoperability and
access. Because when we do
that, our agents, our tools can start to
reimagine and rebuild our digital
world. We don't want ownorous
regulation. That's just going to lead to
another form of capture.
But if you do give people control and
protection over their data and over
their digital
lives, the thing that's going to happen
first of all is that it's just going to
be a new way of interacting with the
existing digital ecosystem. But the
thing that's going to follow from that
is that we're going to be able to invent
new interfaces, new products, and new
ecosystems. and that this old world
that limited us, these walled gardens,
they're not necessary anymore. They're
only necessary today because we don't
have something else. So, we now have an
opportunity to imagine a totally
different digital future. And that's
something actually worth fighting
for. So, that's it folks. Um, I want you
to know that at Imbu, we're thinking
really deeply not just about what does
it mean to build these technologies, but
what does a world need to look like to
actually be able to um foster this dream
and this vision. And my ask to you is
that as you think about what you want
that world to look like, if you want to
join the work that we're doing, come
find me. I'd love to talk to you. Thank
you.
All right. Um, very excited for this uh,
conversation and we are so so honored to
have Executive Vice President Terresa
Rivera uh, join us. I may be wrong, but
I believe this might be her first uh, US
uh, event. Uh and of course uh you know
the competition policy in Europe is
something that Y comodinator closely
watches. We recently sent a letter to uh
the White House uh urging uh President
Trump to essentially not retaliate
against the digital markets act because
we believe it's been really important in
terms of oxygenating uh markets and
creating more opportunity for founders
uh by increasing interoperability,
reducing
self-precy. I'm so honored to uh
introduce um Melissa and the executive
vice president. I'll start with Melissa.
She is the managing partner of Conan and
Gresser's uh Washington DC office.
Melissa Maxman uh also a dear friend. Uh
she leads the firm's antitrust and
competition practice and has decades of
litigation experience at both the trial
and appellet levels primarily in areas
of antitrust, complex commercial
disputes, and white collar defense. She
has extensive experience advocating for
domestic and foreign corporations on
global antitrust issues. And she's been
recognized by the legal 500's US guide
and antitrust civil litigation class
actions defense category um and uh
Chambers USA in the antitrust litigation
specialist category by the law dragon
500 leading global antitrust and
competition lawyers guide. She currently
represents nonparty witnesses uh duck.go
go in and the uh US speak Google uh
litigation and a nonparty witness
seatgeeek in the U US first live nation
uh and ticket master. Um so she's going
to be leading a conversation with uh
Terresa Rivera who's the executive vice
president for a clean, just and
competitive transition at the European
Commission. Um she she's driving
Europe's goals under the European uh
green deal. She oversees the clean
industrial deal, supports investment uh
in clean tech, and ensures the
decarbonization of the economy. Uh
Commissioner Rivera also leads efforts
to reduce energy prices and fossil fuel
dependency and invest in clean energy
infrastructure while addressing energy
poverty. Thank you very much. Uh and
please thank you for being here. Uh uh
executive vice president, please give
them a warm welcome.
So, madame executive vice president, I
am it's such an honor for me to
interview you. As I said before, um
we're I want to focus first on the
digital markets act, the DMA. Um as
Luther said, I happen to represent
Ducko. Is are my are my clients here? I
guess not. um they um we rely on the DMA
quite a bit
and midway through your predecessor
commission commissioner
vestiger's term she was asked what was
her biggest regret and she said not
taking bold enough action under the DMA
and I am going to ask you what is your
attitude towards bold action under the
DMA Okay. Oh, thank you for the question
and thank you for the invitation. I'm a
little bit each one has her own profile.
So, I'm a little bit more like the type
of transatlantic partnership that the
previous picture was
showing legal from Denmark being
combined with your little tech. So,
these two pictures of the two of us
working
together. It's a small joke, but it is
important. Oh, I think that the reason
why we need to take bold action under
the DMA is because we think that as
responsible for this public functions,
we need to be sure that opportunities
for
innovation, for new
startups, for new people challenging the
incumbents count on um room so to
perform, but also can count on an
administration, different
administrations
that cooperate to ensure that this may
happen and um probably she uh she did
what she had to do. I think that she was
very modest and humble when saying that
because it was under her leadership that
the DMA was adopted and it is not so
easy to figure out how we combine the
type of governance the type of u powers
the type of uh deduce and don'ts that
the different companies and the criteria
to identify the gatekeepers. Now we
think that it is easy or we don't like
or whatever but it was not so easy to to
to have this there. So I think that she
was brave. I'm going to be brave. Of
course I'm going to be brave. I'm I'm
bound by the law. I think that it is
good to provide the sense of reliability
and
commitment to to the defense of um
different um users but also to the
creation of a space for innovation and
new people entering into this market.
Thank you. Um let's turn let's get
granular. Let's turn turn to what areas
we may see your boldness in action. And
I want to start off by noting that your
um title has changed. Commissioner
Vvestiger was the commissioner of
competition. Your title is the executive
vice president of environmental justice
and competition transition. How will
your enforcement approach differ? and
will you take more aggressive steps such
as structural remedies or swi swift
reform actions to achieve your
goals? I guess that today's world
is a very different world from the the
one that we experienced 10 years ago. Um
we are speaking about market forces that
already exist. I don't I cannot figure
out how a company that in intends to be
successful longlasting successful
company cannot take into consideration
the impact on the society of what they
produce and the demands of the society
to to to count on good product services
but also to to pay attention on the
welfare of the society or the fact that
uh well there are limited resources. So
if there are limited resources and the
whole world intends to increase the
quality of life, it is quite wise to
think about green environment, climate,
all those things that seem to be quite
revolutionary but that are not
revolutionary are just common sense data
and reason.
So when we take into consideration the
different market forces to assess any
individual case including those
happening under the different
markets. These are references that need
to be taken into account as well as the
different time scales in terms of
identifying how productive, effective or
um
anti-competition any behavior may be.
And somehow this is reflected in the in
the title of of my mission. So yes, I
deal with competition policies. in my
mission letter says that I need to be
sure that we can put in place an
evolution of the way we um implement the
competition tools to to be ready to
defend the rights of the consumers to
ensure a level playing field a well
functioning open economy to improve
transparency and dedication
and um and this is what we intend to do.
I take it from your remarks that you
don't believe that bold enforcement of
the DMA is contrary to any of those
things. And I'd like to compare that
with the signals you're getting right
now from the United States. Um, do you
interpret the omission of the DMA and
Vice President Vance AI speech in Paris
and the US's restraint on criticizing
the DMA as a positive sign?
I mean are you assume are you seeing any
common ground emerge with Washington on
reigning in big tech? I know what the
European consumers
uh think and say. I know that they think
that this is very
useful things that they can use. The
digital world helps to improve the
quality of their products, the way they
relate to the others and um the capacity
to keep on improving uh their own
business. as users or the services they
can provide if they are providing
services in the digital context. But
they also would like to count on an
administration that pays attention to
ensure a level playing field fairness in
the way they they they can accept uh
these um services without putting at
risk I don't know privacy different
rights the possibility to choose between
different providers suppliers and so on.
So we had a difficulty to identify how
we could enter into that and um when
this conversation started a long time
ago during the Trump one
administration it was already clear that
this type of feelings sentiments
expectations were very present in the
American society too. So we thought that
it was good to learn from each other to
identify how we each of us could protect
the consumers through the regulation and
the strong enforcement of the regulation
and that's what we have been doing along
along these
years more than 300 million
Europeans
to rely on
Google or rely on meta.
uh for any type of provision of services
or access to many different aspects of
their day-to-day life. So these 300
million
people expect from their administration
to protect their rights.
Um when um implementing the DMA, we also
opened the space for small
very valuable digital companies, many of
them coming from the US that um identify
that they can work and um and develop
their own products and uh that the
consumers may identify their products as
most preferable products, more
preferable products than the products
being provided. provided by traditional
incumbents. So I think that there may be
some
misunderstandings because in fact it is
not against anyone. It is to protect the
rights of our citizens the same way it
could be the right or the way to protect
the rights of the American citizens and
the American companies. And um and I
guess that uh this is something that if
it has been somehow
misinterpreted should be clarified but
uh it's so good to count on American
companies developing this business to
perform so well to have new challenges
contesting the existing ones providing
new services it's exciting I think it is
thrilling I think it is great news but
um I guess that um I have to ensure that
my children may
challenge their parents their mom in
case they find ways to solve their
problems in a better way. So the same
for the digital world. Well, picking up
on that leveling the playing field for
startups. I know there are many people
in here which want you to elaborate on
that a little bit. How do you plan to
ensure your policies help startups and
scaleups compete rather than
inadvertently burden them? In other
words, can measures like the DMA really
empower the next generation of startups
which I think all of our children are
getting involved with.
My impression is that this has already
started when the application with the
application of the DM MA and the DSA.
Mhm. The way we try
to
provide guidelines on how to ensure
interoperability between the different
players. The way we um ask uh to open a
space for uh new services using the
existing platforms.
The way we ask for transparency on how
it
works helps to identify room for this um
startups. And in fact, we see a trend
where smaller companies um get a bigger
share just because just because this
culture of compliance, this culture of
um common learning, the learning curve
to identify how we can uh apply this uh
this new regulation
um offers an opportunity to rebalance a
little bit the the share of the market
of these of these existing big players.
and provides room for the new ones or
the smaller ones entering into the
market and um and I think that this is
good. It is quite appreciated by
consumers as I said but I think that uh
it is rapidly
identified by these smaller companies.
So to make their offer to the general
public and to get additional room to
develop their own business case and and
the capacity to innovate and to perform
in a different way in many occasions to
compete on a briefer basis and get
better results. So that's what all of
this is about since the very beginning.
I I want to pick up on a theme that I
see is running through all of your
answers and it's that tension the
balance between regulation and
innovation which we all struggle with
all over the world and how do you view
this balance in your new role or not so
new anymore sorry and um can Europe be a
global regulator and a tech innovator?
What what are your views on the
regulatory safeguards and how they can
coexist with an environment where
startups can flourish? To me, good
regulation is
a a very relevant basis, a very relevant
ground to ensure innovation. It is not
the only factor. Of course, you need to
count on educated communities that uh
are motivated, engaged and have the
capacity to perform better that um have
the appetite to improve the quality of
whatever product, service
or thing being demanded by the society.
But I think that good regulation helps
into this. Um if the regulation is
chaotic, inconsistent,
incoherent, if it is a kind of um how to
say wild west where the most powerful
and aggressive attitude gets the whole
market
it could be very difficult to ensure
that there is an open space for
innovators. So I think that we need to
to do and and this is not new. This has
happened during decades in different
fields and different sectors. What it is
new is that we are entering into this
digital era with a a different view, a
different manner to behave, a different
manner to transfer proper governance and
we are learning to do so. This is why
the the value of uh the DMA and the DSA
and the role of the European Union as
front runners in this approach to me is
courageous coming back to my predecessor
Margaret de Bester but it has also been
a source of inspiration of many in many
different geographies, many different
countries and what we think is that um
deepening the cooperation between the
the
ational administrations and forces of of
the competition law is is key because we
all are learning in this in this uh in
this new world how we
can
improve the quality. I mean now we could
not think of a a sector
where the national competition authority
could have allowed to do
whatever and in the any industrial
sector. no industrial sector could have
been playing his cards, her cards in
such a way and I think that we we find
it quite natural and um and this should
be the case also for the digital one. I
can't say I disagree. Um let's dig down
a little bit more specifically since
we're at the little tech composition
summit. I want to talk about interoper
interoperability and technical
challenges which is
a struggle for courts in Europe, courts
in the United States. How do you plan to
to ensure effective
implementation? Can you encourage or
compel companies to open up to
competitors in a way that is seamless
and safe? In other words, what's your
approach to overseeing the technical
obligations?
Yes. Well, we it's technically of course
it is complicated when we think about an
administration trying to to figure out
and to follow uh how this can be
implemented in such a way that it is
sound both for the company but for the
users and respect the privacy and of the
data and so on. Um it requires the
support of uh technical people within
the administration or external support
but being connected with the
administration to count on the right
information and the right uh way forward
not to make any any mistake. At the very
same time I think that this is
feasible. It's not that
uh because it is difficult we are not
going to do it. We need to pay attention
to all the cyber security concerns that
there may be around of the privacy, the
protection of the private data as I
said. But I think that it is important
to ensure this interperability because
at the end it is it is the the bridge to
ensure that there may be a capacity to
to move and to provide more space for
new for new players and to avoid a
bubble restricted on itself. with no
capacity to to
to open to new to new developments. And
um this
is by definition and I insist on this by
definition one of the goals of the DMA
and in certain cases we may find some
companies where by definition
things should be
non interoperable.
So it may be inevitable to to have a
clash on this. In the couple of minutes
we have left, let me talk about you're
at the beginning of your fiveyear at
least your first fiveyear term.
Um how will you measure
success in your management of the
regulations of the DMA? What indicators
will you tell will tell you that
Europe's digital competition policy is
working? I like biodiversity. You know,
I come from the green world and I like
biodiversity. And here it's more or less
the same thing. A rich
biodiverse digital safe future that
works well in a peaceful manner. So with
not so many clashes around and that
provides room for innovators to
innovate. I think that we will we will
be witnessing in the years to come to
what extent we are able to to draw all
the benefits of this new legislation
regulation and to what extent it is a
way to to manage uh in a much more
friendly common way the challenges that
um the users in at one side or the other
side of the Atlantic
identify
as relevant pieces to to keep on
succeeding. And if you see that the
outcomes are not materializing as you'd
like them to be, are you prepared to
adjust course to what? Adjust your
course. Change change how you're
implement I I mean I think
that this is the beginning of a new era
and we are learning. So it's not it's
not that I am prepared or I'm not
prepared. I'm sure that we need to
adjust course
because none of us knows very well how
things may evolve and we may find
something absolutely unexpected that
um brings us to a new paradigm which is
fantastic that does not fit for purpose
or it can be the other way around that
we identify loopholes that deserve
further attention in order to improve
the quality of u the job and the
products that are being provided to the
to the market. So I think that we need
to be humble to to be transparent to
learn and to adjust in order to improve.
Not in order to go back but in order to
improve. I
think your openness
to adjusting as we embark on this new
era shows that you absolutely have the
temperament to succeed. So but I want
something because I see the signals
coming from the audience. I want a
picture with that uh with that um other
picture in the screen that you and me in
the scene with the picture. I found we
were beautifully represented in those. I
think so. I want one too, Luther. What
are we going to do about that? Can we
Can we put the picture, please? And then
I promise I leave. Oh, there we are. I'm
going to put it up in my office if
you'll put it up in yours. Thank you so
much.
[Applause]
I'm really excited to welcome to the
stage Leah Nyl and Tim Sweeney. Lean Nyl
uh you know in so far as this is the
second annual remedy fest. Uh Leah joins
us again as a moderator of a panel. Uh
obviously we're on a a bigger scale now,
but uh you know Leah is the matriarch of
antirust coverage uh in the US uh and
maybe globally. Um just absolutely um
top of the game and we're so honored to
have Leah. Um she's at Bloomberg News.
She covers regulatory legal developments
affecting major corporations and
markets. Uh she's got a deep
understanding of competition law and has
worked on high-profile cases including
tech giants and governmental regulators.
Her works appeared in Politico, INLACS,
and other leading publications, making
her a respected voice in the field of
antitrust journalism. That's an
understatement. And then we're very
honored to have uh Mr. Tim Sweeney here.
Uh Tim Sweeney is the founder and CEO of
Epic Games, leading video game and
software development company known for
Fortnite and the Unreal Engine. Uh he
founded Epic in 1991 and has overseen
its growth into a major player in the
gaming industry, pioneering advancements
in game development, technology, and
digital distribution. Under his
leadership, Epic has expanded its
influence through the Epic Game Store
and strategic partnerships. Please give
it up for Tim and Leah.
I'm not really sure how I feel about
being a matriarch, but
um but uh you are the founder and CEO of
Epic Games, and one of the things that
you guys have been pretty well known for
over the past couple of years is taking
on Google and Apple. I wonder if you
could tell us a little bit about why you
decided to sort of start that fight.
Yeah. Well, they've they've distorted
the the American business landscape into
something that's almost unrecognizable.
You know, my my first experience as a
programmer was with an Apple 2. You buy
this computer, you turn it on, um, and
the first thing that comes up is a
programming prompt. Anybody can write
code. You don't need to join a developer
program and pay some annual fee for the
ability to write basic code. Um, you can
then save your program to a floppy disc.
You share it with any friend. You could
uh sell it in a store. Uh, you could
publish it on a bulletin board online.
Uh, everybody had complete freedom to do
business together. And that you know for
the following 25 years uh in that era
every you know the the entire global
software industry formed and uh was an
incredibly competitive and robust
business. Um when Apple came out with
the iPhone they totally shut that down.
Um they blocked all competing stores and
competing payment processors and imposed
junk fees on the platform. You know
taking 30% of all transactions. you
know, seemed like a a low fee in 2008 or
so, but um now it's by far the majority
of profit being made by all digital
apps. Um Apple makes more profit from
every app than the developers of the
apps themselves make. Um it's just
unjust and it's broken the broken the
software economy completely. Uh to the
point where, you know, it's not just
Apple taxing revenue of other companies,
it's deciding who's allowed to compete
with them and how. Um, we built an
awesome PC game store that competes with
the Steam game store and the Microsoft
game store and the good old game store
on PC. Um, Apple blocks it on iPhone.
We're not allowed to compete with Apple
uh to have a software store on iOS. Um,
and they bar large categories of
competitors from competing. Um, you
know, they blocked game emulators until
uh Europe forced them to open up. uh
they block AI assistants from performing
functions nearly as well integrated as
Siri. They block competing web browser
engines so that web browsers remain
crappy uh using and for are forced to
use the Safari engine which is
intentionally limited in order to stifle
the viability of web as a comp
competitor to to native apps. Um, so
there's this vast gamut of
anti-competitive practices Apple imposes
there. And um, in fighting, we I very
much wanted to show the world what was
really happening. Um, we didn't just
file a court case. We went out and we
defied Apple's rules and we defied
Google's rules and we launched an a
direct payment system into our app. uh
enabling developers or enabling Fortnite
players to buy directly from us and save
20% uh or buy from Apple and uh you know
pay the regular price. Um Apple blocked
us from that. We filed our antitrust
case against both Apple and Google
simultaneously and um you we've been
fighting ever since and we're not going
to stop until uh until companies like us
are free to compete again everywhere in
the world. Um and uh it's just been very
disappointing. What used to be, you
know, a really visionary, respectable
industry in the United States has turned
into, you
know, some sort of gangster movie uh
where, you know, companies are openly
breaking the law. um their law firms are
openly breaking the law and um you know
they realize that because they have such
uh tight uh relationships with the
government um that they think they can
get away with it forever and uh
occasionally pay some fines here and
there rather than um being forced to
open up and allow competition. You know,
we see this as an existential threat to
not only our business but to the entire
developer ecosystem we serve. You we're
not just a game maker making Fortnite,
we also make the Unreal Engine um and a
lot of other tools for other developers.
And we think, you know, one of the major
reasons the game industry is burning
down right now with so many distressed
companies and layoffs, uh, is because of
the monopolization of app distribution.
Um, when you started this fight back in
2020, did you imagine that this is where
you would be in 2025, you would still be
going on? I had higher hopes um that uh
that the court would rec the courts
would recognize and more speedily deal
with um the abusive practices of Apple
and Google. You know, one of the first
things we did when we filed Epic versus
Apple in Epic versus Google cases, we
sought a a preliminary injunction um to
stop Apple and Google from blocking
Fortnite from competing and to stop them
from blocking our payment processing
service. Um you know, we'd hoped that
there would be a path to immediately
relief. That was denied. Um and you
know, the assumption at the time, I
think you might have a very different
decision being made today if the court
were lit the case were litigated today.
with the decision in 2020 uh was that
they are the incumbent and they're
presumed to be right um and they'll just
keep getting away with the scheme until
the court absolutely forces them not to
and you know so we we won one of the
major we lost our Sherman antitrust case
against Apple which was very unfortunate
again if we knew what we knew now and
the court knew what uh the court knows
now it might have gone very differently
um but Apple got away with massive
discovery abuse massive fake privilege
abuse um and this wasn't caught until
well after the case. Um but yeah, the
result is uh it's just been justice
delayed for 5 years now. Um you know,
finally the one bright spot here has
been the European Union passed the
digital markets act um and forced Apple
and Google to allow competing stores and
so we launched the Epic Games Store in
Europe successfully on iOS. We launched
Fortnite back on iOS in Europe. Um but
now Apple and Google are still getting
away with blocking us from competing
with them in the rest of the world.
Yeah, I was going to I was going to go
here next. You know, we you mentioned a
little bit that Europe has um imposed
some rules on app stores. Um can you
tell us a little bit what has been your
experience with how Apple and Google um
have been complying with the DMA? Well,
their strategy is malicious compliance.
Um they think that they can use their
political clout uh to scare Europe uh
away from imposing large fees on them.
Um and then uh with no threat of uh fees
uh or sorry of fines uh at the scale of
billions of dollars uh you know they can
get get away with years and years of
malicious compliance, you know. So
Europe said told Apple they had to open
up uh you know iPhone to competing
stores. They they did that um to give
them some credit, but then they
introduced so many obstructions that no
store can really compete with them. You
know, they introduced scare screens
where you have to click through a
Byzantine like Apple, you know, they're
the best user interface design company
in the world. They design awesome easy
to use user interfaces and they bu build
the worst world's worst user interface
for uh allowing the Epic Game Store to
be installed. Um you know, and so, you
know, it's intentional that they did it
that way. Um, and they tell you that
they can't protect users and their
software might be insecure. And you
know, Google and Apple both both do
these things. Um, and then they impose
uh fees uh for developers who want to
sell outside of the app store. It's like
if you want to sell in another store,
you not only have to pay junk fees on
your sales through that store, you also
get a worse deal from the Apple App
Store by relinquishing exclusivity. And
so, you know, it's just textbook
malicious compliance. Um and uh you know
I I expect that the European Union will
uh come down and uh give them some much
much clearer guidance on what they need
to do. But I think that is likely to
just start the next round of malicious
compliance. Um because unless Apple was
uh really facing the the prospect of
fines that are much larger uh than the
revenue lost uh by relinquishing their
anti-competitive practices, they'll keep
doing the crime because crime crime has
paid for them so far. And this is the
problem in America and the problem in
the world. Crime pays for big tech
companies because they are getting away
with it. Their law firms are getting
away with it. And you know, we obviously
we shouldn't expect that to change until
uh until enforcement becomes much much
more vigorous. So you um you all have
now launched the Epic Game Store not
just in Europe, but in the UK, Brazil,
and Japan. What has the experience in
some of those other places been
different than in Europe? Oh, well, so
let's see. So we've launched Epic Games
Store on Android. It's been on PC and
Mac for seven years now. Um, we launched
it on Android worldwide. Um, and it's
available and anybody can install it on
their phone, but uh, Google, you know,
has a flow of
some 17 or 18 screens to try to scare
the user away from installing our
software. They tell the user that Epic
Games Store is from an unknown source
and it might harm your device. Like,
Google knows who we are, I'm pretty
sure. and uh they know our software
won't harm the user's device, but yeah,
they pop up these misleading warnings in
order to uh disincentivize users and
disincentivize competition. Just
textbook self-preferencing, but they're
getting away with it. Um and uh but you
know, and 50 to 60% of users drop off um
from our website when they go to install
our software. 50% of them are scared
away because Google's uh scared them. Um
the 50% of people who do succeed in
installing our store have it on their
device and it works um and they can
commit Fortnite and play. Um Epic Games
Store is launched on uh iOS and Europe
um Europe only. Everywhere else Apple is
still blocking it. Um and again the uh
the drop off for installation is 50 to
60% because of the friction and the
scare screens. But for users who get it
on their device it works. Um and uh you
know we have a growing base of Fortnite
players who are returning. Do you have
you guys been able to um persuade any
other companies to put their uh apps in
your store? Um yeah, we're seeing two
different tracks. Um on Android, you
know, Google does so much work marketing
Android as an open platform. The you
know under behind the scenes they're
undermining it. Um developers have been
generally willing to put uh their apps
on the Epic Games Store for Android. So
we have a couple dozen games now and we
have a whole lot more coming. Um, and by
the end of this year, the Epic Game
Store will enable developers to just
submit their games and, you know, we'll
have an unlimited size catalog that will
just keep growing. Um, you know,
hopefully tens of thousands or hundreds
of thousands of apps by the end of next
year. Um, on iOS, the story is different
because Apple not only uh adds uh
barriers to shipping on competing stores
on iOS, they actually make the App Store
deal dramatically worse for developers
who ship their apps through the Epic
Game Store.
um you know instead of Apple collecting
30% they collect a nominally lower fee
but then they collect an annual junk fee
of 50 cents per user per year. Um unless
your app is enormously high grossing per
user um you know any freetoplay game is
is largely dissuaded from that. So
almost no developers have been willing
to uh put their uh no major developers
of major games have been willing to put
those games on our store on iOS. They
just it's too expensive for them. Apple
would bankrupt them if they did that.
But we have gotten a few uh you back
catalog games, games that were big in
the past that kind of faded out and are
now coming back to the Epic Game Store
and uh we're launching there. And
hopefully after uh if Europe clarifies
the DMA and says Apple is not allowed to
impose these chunk fees, then hopefully
we'll see the floodgates start to open.
I saw another interview in which you
said that you guys have spent billions
of dollars on both the legal fees and
sort of developing the Epic Game Store.
Do you think that it was worth the
money?
I think it's Yes, I think it's essential
if you know if developers like us, Epic
Games and the Y Cominator companies and
other independents in the world hope to
become major successful companies and
forces of nature in the tech industry.
We must be freed to compete. Um, right
now we're all vassels in, you know, a
feudal system that's controlled by Apple
and Google. Really sucks to admit this,
but it's the truth. Um, we are secondass
citizens in a world that they control.
Um, and you know, we'll never be able to
uh
to reinvest as the big tech companies
do. Um, if they're able to take the far
majority of our profits off of the top
line through these 30% fees. You know,
this is a competitive business. Nobody
makes a 30% profit margin with a major
app at scale. Um and so Apple's 30% fee
is the large majority of the profits and
you know they force us to in order to
pay those fees they force us to raise
the price of our apps and our
microtransactions above their natural
level which suppresses demand and you
know causes counterveailing forces on
our against our business. uh you know I
think the entire US tech economy would
be ma vastly more vibrant, competitive
and open to startups um than it is now
if uh if this regime were completely
undone as the Sherman antitrust acts
were intended to do. So uh we talked a
little bit about things in um other
countries but what would you like to see
happen here in the US um either with the
agencies or legislation?
Uh well I think America needs to take
this very ser seriously. our tech
industry is being crushed um by Apple
you know Google at the center of this
all um and other parts of the industry
being crushed by other monopolists but
this is the s core problem with apps um
I think both the existing antitrust laws
need to be forced enforced as broadly
and robustly as possible and recognizing
that Apple and Google um will engage in
massive scale malicious compliance um
and obstruction um and that their big
law firms are unshackled by what used to
be the ethical duties of lawyers um that
uh they need to be willing to take a
very hard line on that um in the way the
Sherman Antitrust Act was originally
enforced. Um I you know talking about
breakups uh potential of criminal
enforcement actions um and actions
against um individuals making decisions
as well as the companies themselves. I I
took a position against that for a very
long time. I thought that when Apple and
Google were compelled to obey the law
that they would. Um, but we see now that
that is very much not the case and that,
you know, they're they're not going to
stop until they're forced. Um, so I
think law enforcement needs to take on
an entirely new tone if uh if these
companies don't get speedily in in line
um with the requirements of law. Um, I
think regulation is also incredibly
important. you Apple and Google are
masters at um you know making bogus
security arguments um and using
lobbyists to gaslight you know
influencable people in Congress uh to
buy into their arguments they know
aren't real but um you know are
overcoming with with donations
um I I think we need very very clear
legislation such as the open apps market
act saying that digital platforms cannot
monopolize distribution. They cannot
disadvantage competing distribution
sources. They cannot disadvantage
competing web browsers or web browser
engines and they can't down they cannot
shut down or disadvantage any of the
vectors that competitors need to use to
compete broadly across the entire
platform. So the open apps market act
solves the app part of that problem but
it only solves it as in its current form
in the United States. Um, you've come to
realize that Apple and Google kind of
want every country, you know, all the
more than 100 countries around the world
with app economies to have to go off and
do their own antitrust enforcement and
litigation and force each one to play
out uh their malicious compliance
strategy in detail before they comply.
Calculating that they can probably delay
this another five or 10 years and
continue collecting them monopoly rents
if they don't. Um, I think that needs to
be shut down by the United States. And
uh you know if the United States doesn't
solve this problem worldwide for these
US gatekeepers, you're just going to see
a giant maze of international regulation
and uh and gridlock uh as different
countries regulate these platforms in
different ways and they're all forced
into Byzantine solutions. I think the
answer should be something like
extending the open apps market act with
a developer bill of rights saying every
developer has the right to compete if
they choose uh with the platform makers
store payment service. um web browser
engine and every other critical
component of the technology stack on
equal terms uh with no self-referencing
and no no friction. Um and you know I
think some sort of uh enforcement regime
like that with universal jurisdiction is
required to reign the these companies in
line. You know, the one of the most
disappointing aspects of the Epic versus
Google case, which we won in front of a
jury on every single count,
um after the jury deliberated for about
five hours, I might say, um it was an
incredible victory in court, uh but the
court ultimately, though the court has
jurisdiction to impose uh global
remedies on a US company, they imposed
remedies only on the United States.
Google's got to allow competing stores
and stop uh stop some of its ugly
practices just in America. They're free
to screw over American developers in
every other country around the world,
you know. So, that's not really solving
the problem. I think legislation will
need to do that. And uh you know, the
time is now. Otherwise, you're just
going to end up with an US economy
that's become hopelessly uncompetitive
because a few companies were able to
dominate everything, prevent competitors
from arising, emerging, and competing.
And, you know, freed of competition,
Apple and Google have no incentive to
build good products. And as you can see,
the massive quality degradation in
Apple's own smartphones. You know, like
now setting screens, they're laden with
ads. Um, app store searches always begin
with an ad for some thing that's not the
thing you're looking for.
Um, you know, AI, their AI solution is
horrid compared to the top the next five
maybe 10 uh competing AI solutions which
could offer a Siri like framework if
Apple didn't block them from doing that.
You know, they're just inferior to
competitors in every way. And because
they don't have to compete with the
competitors, it doesn't really matter.
But, you know, America is the big loser
in this. America is not going to, you
know, retain its position as global tech
leader um if these small number of US
companies are allowed to stifle
competition from all of the other US
companies that aspire to do better. I
don't know if you were here earlier when
uh FTC chairman Andrew Ferguson was
speaking, but he criticized the DMA as
uh potentially unfairly targeting
American companies and uh he and some in
the Trump administration has sort of um
characterized the fines that are
expected to be imposed as taxes or
tariffs on American companies. I I
wondered how you sort of respond to that
kind of criticism. Well, the sad truth
is that Apple and Google are no longer
good faith, law-abiding companies.
They they're run in many ways as you
know gangster style businesses that will
do anything they think they can get away
with. Um and if they think that the fine
is going to be cheaper than the lost
revenue from an illegal practice,
they'll continue the illegal practice
and pay the fine. Yeah, I think Europe
realized this uh and quite preciently
and structuring the DMA as imposing
super harsh fines um in response to
non-compliance. Their goal isn't to
collect massive taxes on US companies.
Europe's goal is for American companies
to compete fairly, which is really
important to other American companies
like us. Small tech uh needs the ability
to compete with big tech. Um, but you
know, I think if you're going to enforce
regulations of this sort, you need to
pick your poison. You can have either
exorbitant fines that are designed to
coers compliance um and strongly
disincentivize non-compliance, or you're
going to need um prosecution of
executives making these decisions, not
and perhaps the law firms that are uh
running improper and unethical and
unlawful legal practices to, you know,
destroy documents, cover up document
destruction. um and uh and evade uh
discovery through false privilege
classifications. Um you know, you're
going to need some sort of individual um
sanctions and perhaps criminal sanctions
against companies and against
individuals. And yeah, I hate saying
that because I don't want the US
government to or any government to have
that kind of power, but uh and I think
that fines are the much less harsh
solution there. But um
ultimately, if the companies won't
comply with the law, they need to be
forced to. And uh you know, this is this
is what the government does. If you if
you if you rob a bank, you you get put
in jail. And uh you know if you're
robbing developers for 20 or tens of
billions of dollars a year and you can
just get away with that forever, no
repercussions, then you know it's a
pretty good business this robbing
developers that Apple and Google are are
in. And uh you know that needs to
change. Uh you guys have spent um a good
amount of time on the hill advocating
for the Open Markets Act and some of the
other antitrust legislation. I wonder if
you guys have detected sort of any any
changes in Congress or more willingness
to push this given the amount of money
that some of the t the tech platforms
spend on lobbying. I think there's a
growing realization that monopolization
of markets breaks everything uh that
makes America America. You
know, America is what it is the most
vibrant economy in the world by far. uh
because of competition, because of
opportunity that exists here and uh and
because of the freedoms we have here.
You know, it's the most vibrant
democracy and the strongest power
because of our freedom of speech and all
of our other rights protected by the
constitution. If you have two companies,
they're highly politically active and
politically aligned against the
administration in reality, although they
seem to be co trying to cozy up or be
seen as cozying up now. Um then you know
they're not only going to
monopolize digital revenue from digital
goods, they're also going to monopolize
speech and they're going to decide who's
allowed to say what. Um you know Apple
threatened to kick Twitter off of
uh off of the app store, meaning block
Twitter from 1.4 billion iOS users
worldwide um because they were concerned
that Elon Musk might not censor the
right people. I mean that was before the
election. Um now Apple was taking a
whole different line you know throwing
up cont you know uh inauguration
contributions and so on and so on but
like these companies are malevolent and
they need to be stopped and uh yeah a
monopoly will crush everything. Um and
the bigger risk isn't only of
monopolization of the markets. It's that
and you see these big law pitches and
lobbyist pitches of this all the time.
They want to create an unholy alliance
between big tech and big government um
in order to further entrench and make
big tech unassalable. And you know
there's a word for that in in world
discourse. That word is fascism. Um and
though I don't think that that's
actually the immediate goal of anybody
at Apple or Google. is the system that
they're that they are working together
to create uh in the way that they're
lobbying and trying to influence
government to give them completely
unchecked power over business. Okay.
Well, thank you so much for sharing some
thoughts.
We have another speaker returning from
last
year.
Uh my colleague son Janna Freriedman is
a has a new role at Y cominator. She's a
writer and researcher. Uh she's was a
staff writer at Pirate Wires covering
technology, politics, and online culture
with a focus on American issues. Um and
her writing includes non-fiction,
experimental fiction, often
incorporating diverse influences such as
Latin mass aesthetics, Tamil, Hindu,
farming traditions, Spanish music, and
baseball. She's fluent in English,
Spanish, and French. Uh and her
contributions occasionally appear in
multiple languages. uh and she'll be
interviewing uh in a fireside chat uh
former chair Alina Khan who as I said uh
came to speak at this event last year.
Uh she was the chair of the Federal
Trade Commission from uh June 15, 2021
to January 20th, 2025. She got her start
in antitrust as a business reporter and
researcher examining consolidation
across markets from airlines to chicken
farming. While at the FTC, Khan focused
on exercising the full suite of the FTC
statutory authorities, regularly
engaging with and hearing from the
public, and ensuring the agency is
updating its tools and skill sets to
tackle new market realities and next
generation challenges. Prior to joining
the FTC, Khan served as council to the
US House Judiciary Subcommittees on
Antitrust. Please give me a uh please
join me in uh giving a warm welcome to
Sanjanna and former Cher Khan.
[Applause]
Lena, thanks so much for for being here
today. Um, I feel like we have to start
with Steve Bannon uh saying that he
thinks you're one of the most important
political thinkers in the country right
now. um and even suggesting that he
thinks he should be reinstated as as
chair of the the FTC. Um I mean you you
spoke at our inaugural event last year
alongside then Senator JD Vance who said
that um you were his favorite member of
the Biden
administration. Um and obviously the
political landscape has shifted
slightly, but you know during the
campaign you had Harris advisers like
Reed Hoffman and Mark Cuban publicly
advocating your removal. Um I'm curious
about your perspective on this this
contrast. you seem to occupy a kind of
unique political position. Um, and then
more specifically, whose worldview on
anti- monopolies is closer to your own,
Vice President Vance or former Vice
President Harris?
Well, first of all, it's great to be
here. Uh, it's a great question for
them. Um you know I think it is really
uh thrilling and and fascinating to see
that in a fairly organic way we are
seeing people uh across markets across
the political spectrum uh come to the
recognition that you know it probably
isn't a great idea to have our economy
be centrally planned by monopolists and
that having markets where incumbents are
squashing out innovators where
entrenched monopolists are pulling up
the ladder behind them really hurts us.
Uh it hurts us as consumers. It hurts
entrepreneurs. It hurts startups. Uh it
means that our markets are more stagnant
and less dynamic. And you know, I think
there is traditionally been a deep
understanding that extreme
concentrations of power pose a threat to
our core liberties. Be that power that's
concentrated in the government in ways
that is unchecked or power that is
concentrated in a monopolist or a very
small number of companies. And so, um, I
think we've seen a lot of progress in
the last few years in terms of
reinvigorating our tools to take on that
unchecked power. Uh, but of course
there's a lot more work to do.
Um, so Ezra Klein and Derrick Thompson
have a new book out that's kind of been
making waves um, abundance. and they
make the point, I think they're sort of
their central thesis is basically that
Democrats need to kind of focus on
regulations and red tape um as kind of
the primary obstacles to unleashing um
you know, affordable supplies of of
things like housing. Um I guess first of
all, you know, do you agree with their
premise that that government red tape
should be high on the list of of
problems for for Democrats specifically
to focus on? And if so, sort of how does
that relate to the challenge of
corporate power in your mind? Yeah. So
big caveat. I have not yet read the
book. I was hoping to pick it up at the
airport on my way home. I think as a
general matter um you know one of the
biggest obstacles that I heard about at
the FTC from entrepreneurs and startups
was bureaucratic red tape that was
created by monopolists and that was
created by incumbents that were
unchecked in the market. Um, you know, I
had the chance to to not just speak at
the event, uh, you all did the last few
years, but also sit down with a lot of
entrepreneurs and startups, uh, and
people who were trying to get their app
to market and just heard about all of
this frustration they had trying to
navigate these rules set by these
private gatekeepers. And so I think any
analysis that's trying to honestly and
candidly figure out what are the
obstacles to progress and where do we
see those bottlenecks really does need
to grapple with the role of private
bottlenecks that are across markets. Uh
you know I understand that the book is
seems to be very focused on some
problems that are specific to San
Francisco and so you know I think we
should be wary about extrapolating that
beyond that to the whole country. But
even if you're thinking about things
like housing, at the FTC, we saw markets
that were monopolized, including in
areas like cement, uh, where you had,
you know, local building, um, efforts
that were really thwarted by some of
those efforts to, you know, make sure
materials were actually affordable. So,
I think those are all challenges that we
really need to grapple with.
Um several people today have talked
about uh the President Trump's um
removal of of Commissioner Slaughter and
Bedoya um from the FTC. Um obviously
these are being contest being contested
in court right now. Um but I'm curious
about your perspective on uh the
intervention and and sort of what
implications it might have for the
commission's autonomy going forward.
Yeah, I mean these firings were clearly
illegal. There's very clear law on the
books that says uh FTC commissioners can
only be removed for cause. there was no
cause even alleged here. Um, and I think
just more generally, you know, you can
have an academic debate about what the
law is and what the implications are for
presidential power. What's been most
disturbing to me is seeing already the
ramifications on the work itself. Uh,
just this week, we saw that one of the
cases we had filed last year against the
three big PBMs alleging that they had
engaged in illegal tactics that are
inflating the cost of insulin and other
drugs. that lawsuit has now been put on
pause indefinitely uh as a direct result
of these firings. So, you know, I worry
about what impact is going to have on
the work uh we've all been seeing. The
big tech CEOs in particular uh make
pilgrimages to the White House to Mara
Lago. Uh these individuals and their
companies are currently defendants in
litigation brought by the government.
So, of course, there's also a question
about what it's going to mean there. Is
there a higher risk of some of these
companies getting sweetheart deals and
and cheap settlements? So, you know, I
think this is an area that we're going
to have to be very vigilant about. I
think more broadly, you know, we had
seen we have seen significant bipartisan
alignment uh when it comes to taking on
unchecked corporate power, especially
when it comes to technology markets. And
I do worry that this really strains that
and um you know hope to see uh my
colleagues reinstated quickly. Do you
sort of generally have any thoughts
about how we can facilitate more
bipartisan alignment on on these issues
or sort of like what the future of this
nent coalition might might look like?
Yeah. Yeah, I mean to my mind the
bipartisanship here stems from the fact
that the problem of unchecked monopoly
power is one that affects people across
all walks of life across all parts of
the country. Uh you know I got to do
trips to places like Ames Iowa and sit
down with farmers who would share how
extreme consolidation across agriculture
markets was making it difficult for them
to keep their farm operation afloat. uh
how restrictive repair policies were
making it difficult for them to repair
their own equipment in a timely way. Uh
would meet with people in Silicon Valley
hearing very similar concerns about
private gatekeepers there. And so I
think the more that we engage with the
facts and what's actually happening in
markets, I think that creates a real
organic way to recognize that people
again across the country, across
political affiliations are increasingly
recognizing how extreme concentration of
power in markets uh poses a real threat.
So after the launch of Deepseek R1, you
wrote an op-ed in the New York Times um
and you you said, quote, "Deepse is the
canary in the coal mine. It's a war it's
warning us that when there isn't enough
competition, our tech industry goes
grows vulnerable to its Chinese rivals
threatening US geopolitical power in the
21st century. And you joined us at YC
last July to talk about the importance
of open source uh foundation models and
this was when SP 1047 was being debated
uh Senator Scott Weiner's um AI safety
bill. I'm curious sort of given your
perspective on open source AI um you
know how do you view the role that that
dominant gatekeepers like Apple and
Google um might be playing in shaping
consumer access to to AI technology. I I
think it's troubling and if history is
any guide then we should worry that
these gatekeepers and the self-interest
that they have could mean that people
are going to be deprived of cutting edge
AI technologies and tools that could
really improve people's lives but that
may not be aligned with the interests of
the gatekeepers. uh you know I saw I I
um thought that the testimony that Gary
Tan gave yesterday and some of the
examples he gave around Siri uh were
quite compelling around you know why why
do we see such a lag here in terms of
the technological sophistication and so
um I think it's a it's a real concern
and and when I was at the FTC we made an
effort uh to make sure we were really
promoting uh open APIs uh focusing on
things like open weights uh in models
and recognizing the ways that
historically
Openness has been such an important
catalyst for turbocharging innovation
and making sure that entrepreneurs um
are able to really focus on innovating
in the areas where they have the most
value to add rather than kind of making
the infrastructure be a basic obstacle
and entry barrier. So I hope that those
are principles that we can kind of
continue to to pursue in the AI space as
well.
Yeah, I guess it's it's sort of
interesting. Some people have um pointed
out the kind of apparent contradiction
of a country like China being at the
forefront in many ways of of open source
um AI while the US uh you know obviously
we have many sort of closed source um
models. What do you make of that kind of
apparent you know contradiction or or
difference just sort of between the two
the two models? Yeah, I mean it's
certainly interesting and and look, I
think we need to double down on the
historical approach that America has
taken, which has been to make sure that
we are uh keeping our markets open and
competitive rather than opting for a
centrally planned economy that really uh
doesn't necessarily reward good ideas
and allow the best ideas to rise to the
top. Um, you know, uh, Frederick Hayek
wrote this famous essay about the
comparative advantages that a free
market system has over a centrally
planned economy. And he noted, for
example, that, um, the pricing system is
one that allows dispersed information
and dispersed knowledge to be
communicated in ways that in a centrally
planned system, you're never going to be
able to replicate because no one entity
kind of knows everything. And one of my
concerns is that when you have these bee
moths, these like huge entities that are
just spanning all of these markets, you
really actually see the breakdown of
some of these basic free market tenants
uh where basic information that would be
communicated effectively and efficiently
in a free market system just totally
gets distorted. And so I I worry a lot
about this those distortions. Uh we
obviously have a whole set of antitrust
cases that are currently pending uh
including one against uh Facebook at the
FTC that is set to go to trial in the
coming weeks. Um you know it'll be
really important that we see these
litigations through that we get good
remedies. One thing that I continue to
worry about is the way that the glacial
pace of antitrust litigation can mean
that the remedy um you know really needs
to be forwardlooking so that we are not
just fixing the problems of yesterday
but actually making sure uh that the
problems are not being replicated in
these new markets. And so I think that's
going to be uh a really important
principle. It's a principle that kind of
exists in the law and we've seen that
some of the most effective antitrust
remedies in the past have really been
futurep proofed in that way. Um, but I
think it's going to be really important
for government agencies to be making
that case to the court and then for
judges um to really make sure that we're
not effectively allowing the monopolist
to benefit and profit from years of
lawbreaking and then just pay a fine,
you know, a decade later or even, you
know, make certain changes to their
business that are just affecting old
markets even as they're just replicating
those strategy in places like AI. So, I
think that's going to be an area to stay
very focused on. Um, I want to actually
see if there's any, you know, questions
from the audience. I think no one no one
has yet done this. Um, but if we have
like, you know, one or two, uh,
questions from the crowd, I think it
might be interesting to incorporate
those. Um, I guess I'll just I see a
hand in the back. Yeah.
Sorry, could you say that again?
Uh I have not seen that announcement. Uh
it'll make for an interesting uh
challenge and and question for uh
antitrust agencies.
Yeah. Thank you so much for sharing.
Maybe this isn't entirely your space. I
think this matters a lot.
that today is going to determine whether
small companies can
you mean in the context of AI or just
generally? Yeah, I mean this is a uh
literally a trillion dollar question
right now in terms of uh you know what
some of these uh larger firms that have
been able to build their models are able
to do. Um, you know, when I was at the
FTC, we heard a lot from, uh, people who
create for a living, be it authors, be
it graphic designers, uh, who were
really alarmed that, you know, one day
they woke up and saw that their life's
creation had just been ingested by these
models and they seemed to have no
recourse and suddenly these models were
spitting out, you know, sometimes text,
sometimes images that were competing
with their own products and had been fed
by their own products. And so I do think
that there is a basic question of
fairness here. Um this is also an issue
that's being litigated in the courts.
There are kind of few very prominent uh
cases including one brought by the New
York Times. Um there was actually just a
uh recent decision I believe in the
third circuit. Um uh basically allowing
uh one of these copyright cases to
proceed. And so it's a very timely
question. I do think that just at a
basic level of of not just fairness but
innovation, if we allow an ecosystem to
appropriate value from creators without
actually adequately compensating them or
really getting their consent, I worry
that that is going to dampen innovation
in the long term because what are going
to be the incentives to actually create
in the first place if you're not going
to be able to reap the rewards when
those creations and those investments
actually take off. And so I do worry
that beyond the kind of basic fairness
implications, there are going to be
major questions here about whether
creators are even going to have the
incentive to invest in creations and
whether we're going to see um stagnation
in that area if we don't get the market
questions right.
Hi, I'm Daniela Chzlo with Politico. Um
and I was hoping you could respond to
two news developments out today. One is
a report in the Financial Times that the
EU might limit the fines that it imposes
on Meta um and Apple. And the second one
was reports that Mark Zuckerberg was in
the White House today um days before his
FTC case goes to the court again. What
do you make of those two developments?
Yeah, I mean on the first I'll defer to
um folks in Europe to kind of weigh in
on on what the intricacies are there.
Um, on the second, I mean, I do think
that it's fairly troubling to see a
executive that's a, you know, heading up
a company that's a defendant in a major
lawsuit, um, be able to have such easy
access. And I think it just does raise
questions about, uh, are there going to
be certain benefits or value that is
conferred as a result of that access.
Um, you know, this is kind of the the
kind of iconic concern that the founders
had about why you need to create checks
and balances. And one of the reasons we
have our anti- monopoly laws was to make
sure we were safeguarding our government
and safeguarding our political system
from outsized economic power that could
then be used for political ends. And so
I think we are all watching those risks
and threats in real time. and it's going
to be a major test of the system to see
if we can withstand that.
Kind of closing out this conversation,
um are you going to primary Chuck
Schumer? What what is next for you uh
now that now that uh you know now that
you are, you know, for now in the
private sector? Uh no, I I admire people
who do electoral politics, but it's not
something that I personally have a deep
desire to to do. Um, you know, I think
there's a lot of uh energy and
enthusiasm, especially among young
people, uh, to figure out, you know,
what is the next phase of all of this
look like and what does it mean to keep
building out this anti- monopoly
movement? And so, uh, that's what I'm
going to be focused on. Do you have a
final message to the kind of the
founders in the audience who are sort of
wondering, you know, what what this
stuff sort of means for them, um, the
builders? Yeah, I mean, I know DC can
sometimes seem like this foreign land or
even a different planet. Um I'll just
say your engagement really matters. Um
you know when I had the privilege of of
being FTC chair really prioritized uh
hearing from real market participants
and was always uh struck by just how
much you learn uh from people on the
ground who are kind of dealing with
these market realities day in day out
and it makes it so that our work is more
effective and more directly responsive
to the actual challenges out there. And
so I would just encourage people to uh
keep engaging uh with with policy
makers, with elected officials um
because it's it's incredibly important.
Great. Thank you so much for your time,
Lena. Thanks so much.
A couple months ago, I was at uh a
conference at Georgetown Law um uh put
on by uh uh the the G Georgetown Knight
folks, which was outstanding, and
they're doing great work uh on uh
concentration and anti- monopoly. And uh
one of the pres one of the presenters,
one of the academ it was largely
academic uh and one of the presenters uh
I thought was really compelling uh and
so I asked him to to join our event. Um
you know last year the equivalent of
this event was called remedyfest and the
entire thing was sort of laser focused
on okay you know in in a handful of
months we could have a situation where
uh DOJ has ruled against Google. Uh what
is the remedy supposed to look like? uh
the DMA is about to kick into effect
that affects Apple, Meta, uh Google, you
know, how are these things going to uh
shake out and what you see when you go
to Brussels and uh certainly in the
halls of Congress is people that put
Pixel on the page, the people that push
the code, the people that build the
products are not necessarily given a
seat at the table. And so the the really
the the goal of remedy fest last year
was to uh kind of create that
environment. And so similar situation
where you're having kind of senators and
regulators alternating between uh
founder demos, but the the founder demos
themselves were very focused on the
details of that. Uh, and so to bring
some of that spirit uh from from last
year back, I I just really thought uh uh
Leon Musul from uh the Wharton School of
Business, who is an assistant professor
um um could could kind of take us back
there for about 13 minutes. Um he
specializes in uh empirical industrial
organization with a focus on antitrust
and the digital economy. prior to
joining uh Wharton. Um he was a
post-doctoral researcher uh in uh New
England and he earned his PhD in
economics from Princeton University. Uh
please welcome
Leon sorry there we go. Excellent. Thank
you.
Allow accessory to connect.
It's a little confusing. Let me show you
how to do
I see. Now you have to look up there.
That's your monitor now. Got it. All
right. A little bit of a challenge.
Excellent. Well, thank you so much for
having me. I'm excited to tell you about
sources of market power in web search
evidence from a field experiment. And
this project is joint work with uh Hunt
Alan Camilo Castillo Matt Ganskow and
Tobiia Saltz. Now I don't think I need
to remind anyone in the room about the
most salient fact about the web search
market which is that Google absolutely
dominates web search right such a high
and stable market share naturally has
attracted the attention of regulators
across the globe. In the US
specifically, the DOJ just recently won
a court case against Google uh with the
judge concluding that Google has
illegally maintained its monopoly. And
one of the facts that was mentioned
during that trial is that Google pays
around $26 billion a year um in payments
to remain or become the default search
engine on various devices. Now against
this backdrop in this paper, we want to
ask and answer two key research
questions. The first one is why is
Google's market share so high? There are
a couple of possible explanations. It
could be that Google is simply the
better search engine. But even then, you
might wonder, is this just because they
have access to more data? It could also
be that consumers misperceive the
quality of Google's competition. Perhaps
because they've never even sent a single
search query on Duck. Go, Bing, or
Eosia.
Finally, uh, with figures such as$ 26
billion dollars floating around, it's
natural to think that default effects
may play a role in influencing market
outcomes. The second key question we
want to ask and answer in this research
project is that of the effects of
various potential levels of competition
policy or various remedies, right? You
might imagine introducing active choice
screens just like uh they did in the
European Union for Android devices. You
could imagine banning Google from paying
for the default position, effectively
switching that default to be Bing or
some other search engine. And finally,
you could imagine requiring Google to
share data with its competitors. Now, in
this project, we develop a model of
consumer search engine choice that
inspires us to design a field experiment
that's carefully crafted to empirically
uh assess the various sources of market
power. We combine that with
observational click and query data from
Microsoft Bing. And uh all of these
tools together allow us to run these
counterfactuals and predict what would
market shares be under these various
policies. Now today's talk is very
short. So I'm going to sort of mostly
focus on the field experiment and the
counterfactuals here. Having said that,
I need to give you a very quick summary
of how we think about the situation.
Essentially, we think look there are
going to be consumers that are choosing
between Bing and Google. But the first
important thing is not all consumers
wake up every single morning and think
do I want to use Bing today for my
searches or Google today for my
searches. Right? Some consumers are
attentive in any given moment and others
are not attentive. And it's going to be
important for us to identify how many
consumers are actually attentive in that
they're choosing the option that
maximizes their welfare. Secondly, if
you want to switch your search engine,
need to navigate the various menus.
You're going to incur some sort of
switching cost. Thirdly, you might be
misinformed about the quality of search
engines that you have never used before.
Right? Search engines are experience
goods. So if you've never used Bing
before, you might be underestimating its
quality. Now, importantly, might be
right, we'll want to estimate whether
you actually are. And then finally, just
to flag, uh, I know in the real world,
search engines sadly don't pay you to
search. In our experiment, of course, we
are going to pay people to search just
so that we can identify price
sensitivity and so I can tell you
something about consumer welfare. All
right. What is this experiment I keep
talking about? Well, uh about a year
ago, we recruited 2,400 people online
and these were us adults using a desktop
computer and we asked them the standard
sort of battery of survey questions and
so on. But then also crucially, we had
them install our browser extension. Now,
our browser extension does not have as
uh you know, wonderful a name as all of
these tech demos we heard before. I'm
never going to be part of Y Combinator
with it. It's simply called search
extension. Search extension is a
beautiful tool though because it is
essentially a little snitch. It will
tell me what search engine you used on
any given day looking even back in the
past by utilizing your browser history.
So, for all of these people that we
recruited, we could track what search
engines they used. That was important
because now we were going to randomize
them into various treatments. And we
wanted to see how did their search
engine usage respond to our treatments.
Now, what were these treatments? Well,
there's got to be a control group.
That's boring. We didn't do anything
with them. More interestingly, there's
an active choice group that's sort of
meant to mimic the choice screen, right?
We're going to ask you what's your
preferred default search engine? And
then we're going to walk you through
implementing it. And you can't avoid
that. We're going to verify that you
actually made it to that choice screen.
The next group is a switch bonus group.
Here, these are people that were
actually going to pay some money, $1,
$10, or $25 to switch their searches for
14 days. So, if they previously used
Google, they're now going to have to use
Bing for the next 14 days and vice
versa. After 14 days, this group is
going to make another active choice like
in a choice screen scenario so that we
can get some sense of how their
preferences have changed. And then
finally there's this default change
group where we pay them a bunch of money
to just very briefly change the default
search engine. But the trick is we never
remind them of this again. So we can see
sort of you know how sticky is that
default. So this is the experiment
timeline. These are all our various
treatments. And the important thing to
note is just we have data from day minus
20 to day 56. So this is actually quite
a long study. We see real behavior for a
long period of time. How are we going to
uh use this study to learn about these
various sources of market power? Well,
I'm going to explain it using this graph
where I'm showing you Bing's market
share amongst baseline Google users. So,
these are people that came into the
experiment using Google and I'm showing
you the Bing market share over time. In
the control group, you would hope it
doesn't move. By the way, this is
stylized data. I'm not yet showing you
data. This is just to get a sense. We're
going to get to data in a second. Now,
in the active choice group, we would
expect that on day zero, when they're
making this active choice, when they get
this choice screen, essentially, they're
going to make a choice that's going to
reveal their true preferences, right?
So, if they think Bing and Google are
actually about equally good, then we're
going to have pretty high Bing market
share here. Otherwise, we might have
pretty low Bing market share. That's
also going to tell us about the extent
of switching costs and permanent
inattention. These sort of frictions
that might hold you back from choosing
your true default. um if you aren't
reminded about it, then we're going to
have that switch bonus group. In the
first 14 days, we're paying them money.
So, we're going to be able to find out,
you know, to what extent do they value
being with their current search engine
over that alternative, their price
sensitivity, in other words. But then
most interestingly on day 15, the switch
bonus group is just like the active
choice group, only that they had an
additional 14 days of experience of
Bing. So any market share difference
between that orange line and that light
blue line must be because they learned
something about Bing. It must be because
they learned about Bing's quality. And
then finally we have that default change
group where we can just see where does
it sort of asam toe to that final market
share difference between the dark blue
line and the orange line will tell us
how much people are influenced by
defaults. So let's actually look at this
in data. Right? This is the same graph.
Now I'm just showing you data. Okay.
Control group nothing much happened. No
revelation there. The active choice
group also nothing much happened. That's
already very interesting, right? It
tells us that if you just gave people a
choice screen, basically they would just
choose Google, right? So, as a remedy, I
think that's almost immediately out of
the picture if you're thinking, well, I
really want to change Google's market
shares. Now, another thing that this
tells us is it can't be that these
default positions are massively helping
Google out in the following sense. Uh,
if the default, you know, if everyone
made an active choice, they would be
choosing something else. We're seeing
they wouldn't be choosing something
else. So, it's not just the default that
matters. What else could matter here?
Well, let me show you here this orange
line, the switch bonus group. Remember,
these are people that are being paid
between day zero and 14 to use Bing. And
good news for me as an economics
professor, you know, when you pay people
to do something, they do more of it.
That's good. I teach that every day, you
know, to my MBAs. So that works out. But
now the interesting question is on day
15, as they make another choice, now an
unincentivized choice, what actually
happens? And what we see is yes, Bing's
market share goes down again. Of course,
we're not paying them anymore, but it
actually doesn't crater down all the way
to the light blue line. Rather, it stays
elevated. It settles down at about 22%.
So in other words, this additional 14
days of experience with Bing really
convince some of these people to stick
with Bing. And that can only work if you
have misperceptions of quality. You got
to either learn about the quality of
Bing or learn how to use Bing. And I
tell you a bit more about that learning
in a second. Just before then, I wanted
to show you also that defaults do matter
in the following sense. If I defaulted
everyone into Bing, a bunch of people
would st stick with Bing, right? this
dark blue line it basically stable at
the end of the day. These are people
that we defaulted into Bing and
initially they switch you know there are
some clever people that switch out very
quickly and the others they just never
change. All right so let me tell you a
little bit more about this learning in
the switch bonus group. We actually
asked people who we uh um the people who
switched we asked them before the switch
and after the switch you know how do you
feel about Google versus Bing? Everyone
agrees Google is better before the
switch. After the switch, everyone still
agrees Google is better, but their
opinions have somewhat mellowed. And
importantly, uh we also asked them just
for free form text responses. This is
from people in that orange line at the
end who stayed with Bing. And my
favorite free form text response right
at the bottom here. I realized Bing was
not as bad as I thought it was. If I
needed to summarize the paper in one
line, it would be that line. I realized
Bing was not as bad as I thought it was.
All right, but moving swiftly on, we
have some numbers on this, not so
important. Moving swiftly on, I think
this is interesting. This is how much
you uh pay people versus their Bing
market share. And these are payments for
every two weeks, right? So even if you
pay just $1 every two weeks, then you
get a Bing market share of 32%. If you
pay $25, you get a Bing market share of
three quarters in our sample. So in
other words, you know, there is a bunch
of people who don't have very strong
preferences. They prefer Google, but not
by a lot. And then there are some people
who have extremely strong preferences.
$25 for two weeks, that's a lot of money
relative to what search engines make and
advertising. So these are people with
extremely strong preferences. It's going
to be important that they're not
defaulted into the wrong search engine.
All right, putting all of this together,
let me do counterfactuals. Uh quick
recap how we think of counterfactuals in
my field of economics. You know, we have
all of this knowledge about how markets
operate. We use that to discipline some
estimates. Those estimates come from the
data that I just showed you. And so
there is a model going on in the
background and there are some modeling
assumptions and for sure we could
quibble about those. Right? In the
interest of time, I'm not going to go
into detail here. Please come find me if
you want to quibble about them. I'd be
very interested. Um, but let me just
tell you about these counterfactuals.
Okay, we got to start with a status quo.
In the status quo, based on our market
definition, Google's market share is
around 89%. We are indexing mostly on
desktop here. Now, what's going to
happen if we take away these frictions?
the switching cost and attention
misperceptions. Well, the efficient
Google market share that is the market
share that would obtain in the absence
of these frictions is 74%. Two things
are important about this. One, this is a
very large number, right? Google is a
great product at least as judged by
revealed preference. So, if we go with
traditional economics approaches of
judging by revealed preference, loads of
people should be using Google. However,
second point, that market share is a lot
less than 89%. In particular, if you
invert it, right, in the efficient state
of the world, Bing's market share has
doubled. So, that difference is the
difference that you could potentially
get with remedies. What sort of remedies
are on offer? Well, you could do a
choice screen. The problem with a choice
screen is it fixes the inattention, but
it doesn't fix the misperception. People
won't have experienced Bing when they
make their choice on the choice screen.
And so that means you can barely move
Google's market share, only like one
percentage point. We're very happy with
this result, by the way, because that is
what happened in the European Union. So
we know that the model isn't making
crazy predictions here. Now, what else
could you do if you only could get
people to somehow have correct
perceptions of these alternative search
engines? That would be great, right?
You're really moving the market share
here. But that's going to be a hard
policy to pass as a remedy. What could
you do? Well, you could ban Google's
payment to be the default. If you do
that, you're really going to crater
Google's market share. So, maybe that's
good news. But then this is really bad
news. This is the only large welfare
number we have. If you're defaulting
people into non- Googlele search
engines, a lot of them are going to
stick with it, including people who
really hate those other search engines.
So, you're going to really destroy a lot
of consumer surplus. So, we are saying
this policy, our model says, is really
bad. How can you rescue it? You can
rescue it by adding a delayed choice
screen. If you add a choice screen sort
of two weeks in, three weeks in after
they have been defaulted into Bing, they
now have that choice screen to, you
know, rescue the people who just
followed blindly followed the default
and never thought about what search
engine they wanted. And the moment they
think about it, they're like, actually,
I want Google. So that delayed choice
screen could really both lower market
shares and leave consumer surplus
unharmed. All right. And with that, I
should conclude. This is some extra
counterfactuals that just show you
returns to scale. The data economies we
find don't really matter. Happy to talk
more about that offline. But let me
conclude here. The key takeaways.
Defaults are extremely effective in that
about a third of users are permanently
inattentive and they also prevent users
from learning about other search
engines. How can regulators reduce
Google's market share? Well, what we
find is that choice screens really are
not going to work. Changing the default
does, but it comes with a large decrease
in consumer surplus. So you need to
combine the change default with uh
another choice screen that comes sort of
later on. That is just one way that you
could design a policy that respects both
user choice and the fact that search
engines are experience goods. So people
need to get experience before making
their choice. And there are several
caveats for this study as with any
empirical study. I'm just going to leave
that up. Thank you so much for your time
and please come see me if you have any
questions. Thank you.
[Applause]
[Music]
Ladies and gentlemen, please enjoy your
break. We will resume at 3:00. Thank
you.
Ladies and gentlemen, please return to
your seats. Our program will resume
momentarily. Please return to your
seats. Thank you.
Welcome back.
I guess I should uh
There we go.
How's everybody doing?
Nice. Uh this has been a really uh
incredible event and I hope folks are
getting a lot of takeaways. I know it's
been getting a lot of buzz uh online. Uh
we have 35,000 people tuned in to the
live stream. So just very exciting uh
event. Um, I am so honored and and kind
of want to almost gloat a little bit
about how we've got uh we we heard from
the FTC chair, Andrew Ferguson. We heard
from the executive vice president uh
Terresa Rivera for the European
Commission who oversees the competition
portfolio. And now we're gonna uh sort
of round out the holy trinity here or
the the trifecta of global antitrust
with uh Assistant Attorney General uh
Abigail Slater in conversation with with
Rachel Bovart. Um let me tell you a
little bit about uh both of these uh
women. Um so before coming to the DOJ uh
Gail served as the economic policy
adviser uh to then Senator JD Vance. I
believe she might have been an attendee
at the first version of this event last
year. Uh she also served on the Trump 45
White House National Economic Council
where uh with responsibility for
technology and telecommunications
policy. Uh she's worked as an antitrust
lawyer at the FTC for 10 years in
private sector. She worked at the law
firm Fresh Fields uh at uh Fox Roku. Um
outside government, she worked in
various technology related legal and
policy roles. She's a lawyer who holds
uh post-graduate degrees in law from
Oxford University, University of uh
College Dublin. And she's a wife and
mother of two sons, Liam and Connor. And
Rachel Board is the vice president of
programs um at the Conservative
Partnership Institute. Uh she spent over
a decade on Capitol Hill in various
capacities in the House and Senate,
including legislative director to
Senator Ran Paul. She most recently
served as the executive director of the
Senate Steering Committee uh and uh the
uh Caucus of Conservative Senators
chaired by Senator Mike Lee. In 2013,
she was uh named to National Journal's
list of 35 most influential women in
Washington under 35. In 2023, she was
named to the Hill's list of 25 staffers
who make Capitol Hill run. She's also
the recipient of the American
Conservative Magazine's Conservative
Mind Award along with CPI's chairman Jim
Dement. She is the co-author of
Conservative, knowing what to keep. She
serves on the advisory board of American
Moment and on the board of the American
Conservative magazine. Please give a
warm welcome to um at Assistant Attorney
General Slater uh and
[Applause]
Rachel. Well, good afternoon everyone
and welcome Gail. Congratulations. Thank
you. Uh I want to start kind of as a
table setting moment. You know, you've
been in Washington a long time. A lot of
us got to know you back in 2012 when you
were working at the FTC as an attorney
adviser to uh Commissioner Julie Bril.
And if we remember that moment, it was
one in which the FTC in a lot of our
minds whiffed on being able to
investigate Google. Um and now nearly a
decade over a decade later, you just got
78 votes in the Senate. What's changed?
Gosh. Um, events, dear. Events happened.
Isn't that what they say in situations
like this? Um, so, so back in 2012, I
think there were a couple of things
going on. Um, these are you newer, more
nent markets back then and people didn't
really understand them the way that many
people do today. Um I'd also add that um
that applied to the agency right as well
as the outside world more broadly. Um
and also in 2012 you know the definition
of like market power is can you control
prices for an extended period of period
of time and the thinking around tech
platforms at that time was you know
competition's just a click away. um
entry barriers are low, there's always
some cool new technology being cooked up
in a garage somewhere and that
technology will leapfrog whatever exists
today. And that was very much the
mindset at the antitrust agencies and I
know and I was because I was there and
it's fast forward to thank you very much
for reminding me that I got 78 votes in
the Senate.
Sweated over everyone. I'm sure my
deputies are starting to tease me about
this because I say it way too much, but
I'll get over it. I will get over it. I
just have to repeat it every day right
now. Um, so fast forward to today and
we're seeing this like really
interesting um awakening um on the left,
but also importantly on the right around
um technology platforms, but also like
concentration throughout the economy in
general. And so um you know I go look at
my Senate hearing and you know there
were there were a lot of tough questions
from the right about the levels of
concentration throughout the economy.
Josh Holly hopefully turned up with some
charts where he like de demonstrated
that and we had a colloqu around it. Um
and so it's a it's not a bipartisan
issue and there's a consensus around the
need for um robust antitrust
enforcement. Um and and that's obviously
like backed up by the president's
announcement when he nominated me in
December last year. Um you know, he did
call out big tech, but he also called
for robust and I trust enforcement with
clear rules of the road. And so like
that's where we are in 2025.
So if we can dig into that a little bit
and we heard uh Chairman Ferguson
reference this phrase MAGA antitrust. So
what is that in your mind? How are you
thinking about that? Excuse me. Um, so,
um, we can call it MAGA antitrust. We
could call it America first antitrust. I
also am quite partial to Hillbilly
Antitrust. I may have to try and work
that more into the mainstream. Um, JD
Vance's next book. There you go. Um so
um look it's about
um putting um American citizens as
consumers as workers we can define it
how we want giving them a seat at the
table alongside other important um
stakeholders in the antitrust
enterprise. You know, obviously we have
practitioners, we have companies, um
they they need legal certainty, but you
know, we in the America first movement
are about giving American citizens a
seat at the table in on any number of
policy issues. I mean, right now the the
hot button issue is trade. Um, and you
know, I just came from another event up
the street and I reminded folks that,
um, you know, quite recently, um, we had
a Treasury Secretary who took to cable
news, I think it was one of the Sunday
shows, and he was asked about, you know,
tariffs and where he stood on tariff
policy, and he kind of made the same
point I just made around the need to
give Americans a seat at the table with
regards to economic policy. and he said
something like we can do better than let
them eat flat screen TVs. And so that's
that's that's where we're coming from
too.
So we're obviously here at the little
tech conference and I'm hoping you can
speak a little bit to you know how are
you different from the previous
administration um when it comes to
enforcement and how does that what does
that mean specifically for startups?
Okay. So, um, we've, uh, we've already
talked about there's a through line from
the first Trump term through the Biden
administration. Many of the cases are
we're carrying forward where
investigations open in the in the first
Trump term.
Um, so we're we're standing behind the
robust antitrust enforcement that's been
in place for, you know, eight years. Um,
but there are some differences. is I
mean one thing I flag for an example for
startups in the room if you're
interested in this is um I'm more open
to consent degrees and merger cases um
and I went into that in some detail at
the hearing um Jonathan Caner was not a
proponent of that um but I also at the
other event I just came from said to use
very technical language that only
antitrust lawyers will understand. Um
I'm not that doesn't mean we're in the
business of accepting what I call
 consent decrees. Um and so
that's that's that's an important um
difference I think from the the previous
administration. I think that's a very
important technical term. It is. Yes.
 consent degrees.
Um, you know, there's a lot of
discussion now, particularly in the big
tech space, about the importance of
national champions and how important
they are to national security and as be
because of that, uh, they should receive
certain treatment from the from the
federal government. How do you think
about that as an antitrust enforcer? Uh,
thank you for the question. This is this
is really important because it's
something that we're seeing popping up
in many different contexts but also in
the antitrust realm. Um so to to steal
man what some technology companies are
saying um you know it's we've got these
global technological races against
certain adversaries. So when I was at
the White House I did a lot of work
around 5G deployment right so that's one
technology race. The current technology
race is AI right? And so we're hearing
certain platform companies, but you
know, tech tech companies beyond the
platform companies talk about the ways
in which they need the United States
government to
um support them because they are de
facto quasi national champions. And so
China has national champions. We need
national champions. And that comes into
the antitrust space as a sort of like a
a defense. It's not it's not a defense
known to the antitrust laws, but it's an
argument and a defense being made. Um,
and so, you know, the argument is we're
really really important to national
security. Therefore, you should not be
applying the antitrust laws to to us at
this moment in time. And you kind of
push it out to its logical extension.
It's almost like an argument for a a de
facto exemption from the antitrust laws,
which as anybody in the room who's
worked in Congress will know is like
really really hard to get. Um, but
they're kind of asking for it from the
antitrust agencies. So that's their
steel man. And then how I think about it
is um, you know, we're we're we're free
market Republicans. Like we it we want
free markets to thrive. And a very
important component in that is healthy
competition, right? We we we don't want
an economy of monopolies and igopies,
right? We want startups to thrive, to be
able to enter these markets to compete
with bigger companies. And antitrust is
a really important backs stop on that
that whole construct, right, which is as
American as apple pie. And so we're here
to we're here to say I'm here to say
that um antitrust import enforcement is
is is really important to keeping our
markets free and open and competitive.
Um and we have historic precedent that
we can do both things. We can both
defend our national security and we can
enforce the antitrust laws. And so
during the second world war we c we we
continued enforcing the antitrust laws.
Um, and we had, you know, considerable
foes then. Um, another example that I've
learned from the antitrust division is
the case of AT&T in the 1980s. AT&T made
an argument that if they were broken up,
um, that that would undermine national
security um, because we needed them AT&T
to to stay as as a monopoly um, to fight
the Cold War effectively. The Justice
Department moved forward. They broke up
AT&T. And then guess what happened? A
lot of innovation was unleashed. A lot
of competition was unleashed. We got the
wireless industry from that breakup,
right? We won that technological race
because of the breakup, some might say.
Um the first the first internet modem
was released from Mel. it had been sort
of under wraps for a long time because
AT&T did not have the incentives to
release the modem onto the market
because they knew it would undermine
their their franchise. So, so that's
that that's what I'm here to to say
about that argument as an antitrust
enforcer.
One of the entry points for the right in
this antitrust enforcement conversation
has been the issue of speech. Um, it's I
think it's what woke a lot of the write
up to looking at competition policy and
in particular it wasn't just the
throttling of speech that people saw at
a mass scale, but also how competitors
to those tech plat platforms suffered
under what was perceived to be an
ideological agenda. I'm thinking of the
case of Parlor in particular. So when it
we look at speech and and from where you
sit as an enforcer, how do you view the
two? Is there a role for competition
policy when it comes to addressing
speech issues?
So, I'm three weeks into the job. Okay,
with that caveat, um I was asked about
this at the hearing, too, also, not
surprisingly, by conservative senators.
Um, and it's something that has not
really been talked about much over the
past four, five years, let's say.
Um the it's it's an animating concern,
however, for many many Republican
senators, particularly those on the
judiciary committee who who think about
these things. Um and so Ted Cruz asked
me about this, Senator Lee asked me
about this, Josh Holly on down the desk.
It's clearly a concern for them. Um the
answer I gave to Ted Cruz was without
having like a file open in front of me,
without having an investigative team
around me is you know as a theoretical
matter when you
have a news story in circulation that is
not politically popular. uh and you have
one platform that circulates 50% of news
stories or 50% of Americans obtain their
news from. It's not that hard to make
that story disappear from the internet.
I mean, it's sort of a obvious statement
to make. I think it shocks some people
that I said that um but you know, think
about it. Um you know, we have large
platforms.
um they have disappeared stories and I
can see where those senators are coming
from. I'll just leave it at that.
Um some uh VCs and founders have
expressed concern that the previous
administration's approach to enforcement
limited M&A opportunities and you saw
Chairman Ferguson I think comment on
this a little bit. Yeah. Um how will
your approach to merger review balance
competitive concerns and the innovative
economy? Okay, so I'll echo what he
said. um you know, we are here to do
tough law enforcement when it's
appropriate. If it's not, we're going to
get out of the way. And I think the
other distinction that I drew is we're
we're also going to be open to to robust
consent decrees. Again, not here for the
 consent decrees. Um and so
those are the ways in which I'm thinking
about um deals coming in the door.
I want to go back to this idea of MAGA
antitrust and what it could mean.
There's been a lot of discussion of the
role, you know, economic analysis plays
in enforcement versus um, you know, the
sort of legal enforcement review. Um, a
lot of this dealing with Matt Stler's
least favorite people in the world and
that's economists. Um, so how how do you
think about um that balance? because on
the right, you know, we tend to
appreciate more economic review, what
the economists have to say versus, you
know, I think a little bit more of the
enforcement heavy side. How how are you
viewing that? Yeah, so I um I'm I'm
supportive of bringing economists in and
and giving them a seat at the table in
cases. Um we're going to have a deputy
for economics, which was a crowd-pleaser
with our in-house economist. Um he'll be
starting in a month or so. He's already
been announced. uh someone I worked with
at the Federal Trade Commission years
ago. Um he's a very seasoned PhD
economist and a practitioner. Um I will
also add he's very pro- enforcement when
appropriate. Um not all PhD economists
are and so they're you know they're
quite involved in our investigations. Um
and um even if we didn't want to include
economists in the analysis um you know
there is an expectation if we go to
court the other side will have an
economist. They'll have a testifying
expert we are expected to have a
testifying expert. That's just kind of
how it works. If only because they serve
to cancel one another out and then the
judge goes and defaults to the documents
and the legal arguments being made and
can craft an opinion around that. Um, so
that's that's how I see the role of
economists. I will say um I'm not kind
of here for economists who are
ideologically opposed to antitrust
enforcement and that was part of the the
personnel pick that we made. Um those
those economists do exist. They exist at
the agencies as well as in the outside
world. And you know the phrase that I
like to rely on there is the the absence
of evidence is not evidence of absence.
And sometimes economists tend to
overindex on the former to say there's
no case there nothing to see move along.
Big is beautiful.
Um, you know, when we're looking at some
of the the innovators and the founders
here in the audience
today, how should the smaller tech
companies approach DOJ if they feel like
they're experiencing anti-competitive
conduct from dominant players in their
marketplace? Do you have practical
advice for, you know, little tech that
may not have the resources that the big
companies do to try and maintain a level
playing field? Do you have any advice
for them? Um, well, you have quite the
convening platform here. I mean,
congratulations. And I should have
started with that to to Y Combinator for
bringing everybody into the room. Um,
I'm also told there were 35,000 people
live streaming this event. Hello
everyone.
I had no idea. So interesting. I told
Luther not to tell us that. Oh, okay.
So, um, you know, please assume that I
am very very interested in your
viewpoint. I am a firm believer in
competitive markets. I'm a firm believer
in antitrust enforcement to keep those
markets open and competitive um so that
you all can succeed. You all to me are
the future of the economy. You're the
future of innovation. Um and so we're,
you know, I'm here. I'm here for you. Um
there are other ways you can navigate
DC. You don't have to go straight to the
top. um you do have allies here um on
the right and the left increasing number
on the right and that's been an
interesting development that Rachel and
I have seen over the past several years
um so that would be my advice
so to the extent that you can answer
this question you know we've been
talking about the tech space but there's
obviously a lot more in the competitive
landscape concentration in the is across
the economy um we've heard references to
it in the health sector you know we
you're hearing I think brought up some
of the a sector, how are you looking at
it generally to the extent that you can
talk about it outside of the tech space?
Okay, so this goes back to
definitionally what does American
America first antitrust mean? Um so it's
you know consumers are not just limited
to one sector of the economy. It's
across the board and so we're very
interested in um cost of living. It's
really important. the one um executive
order I think it's actually a
presidential memorandum that we're
directly responding to is a memorandum
that came out about the cost of living
and so we're you know assume we're
looking at consumerf facing markets
that's really important piece of it um
and then you know we are going to
be open to um you know outside council
um you know please come visit with us um
tell us about what you're seeing. We
don't assume to have perfect knowledge
about what's going on in markets. Um but
consumerf facing is going to be really
important and being a piece of bringing
down the cost of living. It's um it's
not it's not solely our charge.
Obviously there are other levers across
the government that can be pulled but
antitrust and competition are really
important to that.
Um so this might be a tricky question
for you but um at when this conference
opened the first session um Brody
Mullins asked your predecessor Jonathan
Caner you know what what were what was a
mistake that you made? I'm going to ask
you what is one thing that the B
administration did well in this space
that you would want to repeat? Um I
think they brought um immense political
will to um challenging some old
assumptions about antitrust. The sort of
like big big biggest way of thinking and
mode of thinking about antitrust and I
think that was a really important
conversation. Um, I will say so, you
know, some of that did start under the
Trump 45 administration, but they
carried through on that. And, um, you
know, I think they've built interesting
coalitions. We're here today. So,
do you still think that there is a place
for bipartisan cooperation in this
space? I would say yes, given that you
have 70 78 votes, but how do you
shepherd that forward? Yeah. Um, well,
you know, we can start by being
responsive to the Hill.
um we can, you know, be working in
broader coalitions that exist that have
grown up in the past five years. Um and
be responsive to arguments from the
right and the left. Um assuming they're
coming from like a a good-hearted place
and and a lot of those people know where
to find me. They're already finding me.
I'm sure they are. They are. Yeah.
Uh as as we wrap up, I I want you to
address one other question that's been a
totem of the right for a lot a long time
on the on the antitrust enforcement side
and that is the cons consumer welfare
standard. You know, there's people that
want to dump it over the edge. There's
people that want to keep it, but how do
you think about it as a longtime uh
enforcer but also practitioner in the
antitrust space? So, I mean, it's the
law. It's been gradually baked into
precedent since the late 1970s. Um what
I've said um just coming from the
previous event is as a practitioner um
the consumer welfare standard is it's
decently broad. I mean that the
variables including you know quality
price as a dimension of competition
output innovation things of that nature
um as a matter of agency practice often
it's been narrowed down to price because
that's which that is what can be
measured that can be put into an
econometric model and that has become
often the game in agency
practice the other side has a
econometric model the agency produces
one or it kicks the tires on the the
other sides agent and model. Um and so
um the narrow narrow focus on price I
think is something that is doesn't is
not even compatible with the consumer
welfare construct as it exists in
current precedent and I think we need to
be open particularly in certain markets
to think about it more broadly than just
price.
Last question for you. What was your
favorite part of Senate confirmation? Oh
gosh. Gosh,
please be forthcoming. The vote the the
vote.
No, no. I'm I'm going to use this. Thank
you for the question, Senator. No, I'm
going to use this to give um I'm going
to use this to give Senator Grassly a
shout out. Senator Grassley was like a a
prairie populist when it came to
antitrust long before a lot of other
people were.
He's a very dear man. He's a gracious
man. Uh people give him a hard time
because of his age, but boy did he help
me um navigate that process. And um he
um and then then and then before the
vote took to the floor um to deliver
floor remarks in support of my
nomination, which I had not I didn't
even know about. I didn't even know
about. And so we we we connected um and
um he I know he likes me because he
calls me
Slater and and apparently according to
his staff that's what he does with
people that he he likes. And so I
learned a lot from him. I was I was
greatly helped by his staff and I I
really did appreciate the care that they
take behind the scenes which you well
know Rachel is the hardest part of the
job because you've just sharpened
four four HHS nominees through
confirmation. So yeah, that's quite the
lift. Yes. My husband told me never to
volunteer for anything again. No. So
here we are. Um anything you want to any
parting words for your um several
thousand new best friends? Oh yeah.
[Laughter]
I I are they all my new best friends? I
don't know. So
um so so just I mean to summarize, we've
said a lot of this already, but look,
we're here for um giving an American
citizens a seat at the table when it
comes to antitrust. Um we are here for
robust antitrust enforcement. I'm not a
regulator. I'm a law enforcer and we see
antitrust enforcement as a key backs
stop on free markets. So that's where
we're coming from as Republicans. Um and
I also think what I've just said taps
into a tradition. Um John Sherman of the
Sherman Act was a Republican from Ohio.
um and when he took to the floor of the
Senate in support of his legislation in
1890, he made a really important point
which is um the country was founded um
by a somewhat anti- monopoly movement. I
mean the Boston Tea Party was a was an
act against a monopoly. The East India
Tea Company, God bless them. Um this is
um this is this is this is part of a
longer tradition. we are part of a
longer tradition and John Sherman said
at the time in 1890 um you having
reminded his fellow senators of that
founding act um if we wouldn't stand for
a king in our politics which we didn't
um we shouldn't stand for it in commerce
and trade and the necessities of life
and so that that's where we're coming
from. All right. Y well thank you Gail.
All right.
There's water.
That's
loud. Oh, wait. No, wrong one. Wrong
one. There we go. Better. There we go.
Sorry. Okay. I am so excited. Uh yeah.
How's everybody doing? This has been a
great event. We've got 36,000 people on
the live stream. Um, and I'm so so
honored um that uh we've got uh Senator
Holly here to have a conversation about
uh competition and some AI. We've uh
Senator, we've been having some fun
slides uh uh to introduce our our
speakers. And so this is an example. Uh
I think the prompt was make a a picture
of uh Senator Holly and Luther, but make
it like an etch a sketch fireside Jeff.
Um, Senator Holly is uh the senior US
senator from Missouri, serving since
2019 and a member of the Republican
party. Previously served as Missouri's
attorney general from 2017 to 2019. Uh,
Holly holds a law degree from Yale
University and clerked for Chief Justice
John Roberts before entering private
practice and later academia as a law
professor. In the Senate, he serves on
the judiciary, Homeland Security,
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
and small business committees. His
legislative focus includes issues
related to technology regulation,
foreign policy, and economic policy.
Please uh provide a warm uh welcome for
Senator Holly. I'm going to uh speak
with him now.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks
so much for coming. Thank you for having
me. So, you know, at the beginning of
this conference, I said every everywhere
in Washington you go like you you throw
a rock and you're gonna Oh, actually,
you know what? I got to do one thing
here. We're not going to etch a sketch
the whole time. Sorry.
Oh, no. Sorry. Back one. There we go.
Um, the uh I said at the beginning,
we're not going to have uh just an AI
conference because there's been so much
conversation uh about AI in Washington.
It's like every day there's three
different AI conferences, but we want to
make an exception here, Senator Holly,
because you've been such a leader and
such an important voice on this and and
obviously it's it's intertwined with
competition policy. I'm curious,
Senator, um when uh Senator Van or I'm
sorry, Vice President Vance was out in
Paris about a month and a half ago, uh
he gave a a pretty big speech uh about
AI policy. If you had any reaction to
that. Well, first of all, thanks for
having me. It's great to be here. Um and
thank you for the terrific work that
you're doing and the terrific work that
that this group does and for having me
to the summit. Yeah, you know, I think
it's interesting. The Biden
administration when it came to AI
policy, the Biden administration had an
approach that they called safety, you
know, sort of AI safety, which really
sort of boiled down to, in my view, AI
DEI. I mean, that seemed to be sort of
their priority uh in using and training
AI. Uh there are some elements of my
party, the vice president speaks for
some of this, I think, who want to talk
about AI opportunity. I'll just be
honest with you. I'm I'm a little
worried that that means uh rule of the
Robert Barons, LZ Farair, just anything
goes. Let the incumbents who can
currently control 75% or so of
foundation models, let them just keep
going. Um I don't think that ought to be
our framework. I think our framework
ought to be liberty. What is enhancing
to Americans liberty and to our way of
life? What's going to protect our
rights? What's going to protect our
labor? What's going to bring us more
jobs? What's going to make us more
prosperous? And when I say us, I mean
us. I mean everybody. I don't mean
what's going to make a few people on
Wall Street more prosperous. We know
what that looks like. I mean what's
going to enhance the liberty and the
prosperity of the great mass of the
American people, of the middle class, of
our working people. I think that ought
to be our focus. And I think we've got a
lot of work to do to get there. You
know, I think it's a little bit like
I've been thinking over and over about
President Kennedy's speech in in 1963, I
think it was, when he went to Rice
University. he was 62 and he went to
Rice University and gave his famous moon
speech and he talked then about the
technologies that we were just on the
frontier of and he said we need to vow
that our mission into space and the
technology that we will develop from
that will be for the good of mankind
will be for the good of the American
republic. I think we need to make a
similar vow as a country when it comes
to AI. AI is is has the potential to be
hugely transformative. We want that to
be transformative in a libertyen
enhancing way that protects the liberty
and the prosperity of the American
people. And I I think that ought to be
our north star. Got it. Um how do you
deal with you know when you're talking
about there's been sort of a you know
earlier on the stage we had uh Steve
Bannon with Rohead Chopra Lecon was here
earlier. you've been your name comes up
a lot in kind of the conversation around
realignment and this sort of interesting
bipartisan uh work on um you know how do
we make technology uh operate for for
working people and can you tell me about
sort of how you how you think about
that? What is the um you know does that
worry you what the effect of AI will
will have on uh working people? Oh I
absolutely it does. I mean I think we we
need to be honest about this. I mean,
the potential for AI in a very short
space to work a real revolution for
middle class folks is extremely high. I
come from a town of 5,000 people. Uh,
you know, there's a number of folks who
made their living in the town as as
small town lawyers. Let's just be
honest. I mean, if if AI continues on
this trajectory, I'm thinking of
generative AI. If it continues on this
trajectory, we may be saying to a lot of
those people, you're not going to have a
livelihood anymore. We're talking about
a lot of middle class folks who support
families in communities like the one I'm
from. But also, we need to be concerned
about labor. I'm thinking of bluecollar
labor. I mean, as we continue with sort
of the robotics revolution, as AI gets
integrated there, who's going to staff
and run warehouses, factories, uh,
trucking. So, yeah, I think there's a
lot to be concerned about there. And
this comes back to we've got to figure
out a path forward that is liberty and
prosperity enhancing. That where we can
say honestly to the middle class in this
country, this is going to be good for
you and your family. Where we can say
honestly to bluecollar workers in this
country, this is going to be good for
you and your family. It's going to make
you more prosperous. It's going to make
you more free. We're going to protect
your rights. And I think something
Congress can do now is we can work on
protecting the rights of individuals in
the AI space. And we haven't done that.
We haven't done anything successfully,
frankly, when it comes to the tech
space. But what we could certainly do is
is we could work on protecting some
basic rights. We know how to number one,
we value property rights in the United
States of America. We know how to assign
property rights. And rather than some
very governmentheavy, regulatoryheavy,
top- down approach, what I would prefer
to do and what I think would be rights
protecting is to say, okay, we're going
to protect the following categories of
rights. personally identifiable
information, uh, data that is
copyrightable or has been copyrighted,
you know, which is creative work,
written material, uh, pictures, things
that can be reduced to a medium. And,
and we're going to say, American law has
traditionally protected all of those
things. We should say to folks, we're
going to protect those in the AI, and
we're not going to do it necessarily
with a a huge new data agency. We're
just going to affirm in American law
that you have property rights in these.
we're going to allow you to go to court
and to protect those property rights and
then we'll allow the market to work. But
I think we we need to put a regime in
place that is protective of working
people and individual Americans and
where everybody knows what the uh
playing field is and that by the way
does not favor the incumbent companies
because what you often find with
regulation I know I don't need to tell
anybody in this crowd is that the huge
incumbents the two or three biggest
companies the monopouist they would love
to have a massive government regulatory
framework because they'd love to write
it in such a way that only they can
comply. comply with it. We don't want
that. We want more competition, not
less. We want more entrance into the
market, not fewer. And I think we can
protect individuals rights and enhance
liberty while also enhancing
competition. In fact, I think those
things sit together. Is that vision? Let
me ask you this. Are you a techno
optimist?
Um I I may I don't know about that. Um
I'm a technoc concerned. How about that?
Um I because the little tech is is
techno optimistic and that's kind of
part of why I mean everybody's in the in
the back and kind of in the in the aisle
saying what what is this conference
about and I think it's about trying to
to create a space where we can um you
know when I moved to San Francisco in
2007 you used to you went to Stanford so
you kind of breathe the air and drink
the water were around a lot of these
techy folks and you you know this well
but it's like there's a um that's why
I'm not an optimist. No, I'm just
kidding. I'm just kidding. Hey, I hear
you, but I moved there in 2007. So, I
moved there in 2007 during this like web
2 explosion and it was um and there's
just it was optimism and and there was
like this sort of siren song where
you're if you're like a you know young
20s person, it's like why would you want
to live anywhere else than like than
building a cool uh internet company
right now? Now, this is when the web was
more pluralistic. It was more diffused.
It's it's not that way anymore and it's
it's less competitive and that's why I
think the role that YC plays to sort of
fight for little tech Gary my CEO
testifying before the subcommittee
you're part of is there room for techno
optimism in this sort of political space
that that you occupy that that sort of
Lena occupies that that where there's
this sort of overlap and that's what I'm
trying to to figure out what what part
of your vision can a little tech founder
take away and say okay this
Josh Ali is not like a lite.
Well, I think that this comes back to
the point that we were at, I think, in
the early 1960s. This is a decision that
we need to make together as a society.
We need to ask ourselves, I think we can
decide, are we going to use AI to the
enhancement of our society? Are we going
to use it to further enhance our liberty
and prosperity? Or are we going to be
mastered by it? And so, I'm a I'm a tech
mastery guy. I I want us to decide
together that we're going to master the
technology and use it. President Kennedy
talked about we're going to go to the
moon and we're going to use the
technology we developed there for peace.
We're not going to allow it to become a
field of war. We need to say something
similar now, I think, in this day and
age that we're going to develop these
technologies in a way that enhances our
prosperity and our liberty, that
protects the rights of all Americans.
That's very optimistic, but we've got to
make a choice. So, what I what I'm not
for is, oh, let's just let's just go
along and see what happens, you know? I
mean, let's just allow uh the dominant
companies, let's allow the the biggest
uh big tech players just to do what they
want. Let's let's open it up uh for
them. No holds barred, guys. Just do
whatever you want. Um I think we've seen
what that looks like. We've seen that in
the social media space. It's like a
field of horrors. Um we have seen that
earlier in the 1990s and the early 2000s
with the trade agenda. I don't really
want to play that movie over again
because I think frankly AI is going to
be much more powerful. I think social
media has been transformative in many
ways. That's nothing compared to what AI
is going to be just nothing. So I think
we've got to make a commitment together
as a society and what what you're
fighting for for open markets for open
competition for more that I think is
absolutely essential essential to
achieving that kind of broad-based
liberty and prosperity that I'm talking
about. Um, is there um I want to go back
to the the Vance speech because one
thing that I thought was really
interesting uh about it was that uh he
talked about the EU AI act. He talked
about the digital services act. He
talked about GDPR and these are all you
know for folks that track European
regulation. The all three of these are
pretty unpopular regulations. He note I
think notably kind of omitted mentioning
the digital markets act which if you
remember IOA um you know sometimes I
think people trying to sort of uh
conflate or mischaracterized IOA said oh
that's like America's DMA but um it is
true that little tech is pro DMA we have
we have uh written letters to President
Trump saying hey uh you know please with
respect to DMA set that aside there's
all kinds of there may be a basis for
for some kind of trade dispute in other
areas, but um it doesn't make sense for
the White House to be putting its neck
out for for Tim Cook and sort of
retaliating against uh
Europe cracking down on anti-competitive
behavior. Um in in a way that really the
little tech companies advocated for. Um,
and I'm just curious if you if how how
you you your office thinks about that
because I feel like um you know on one
hand um you know you know we want to
bring jobs back to America. We want
America to be strong. there there's uh
I'm totally sympathetic to the these
points, but with respect to how um if
it's the only tool in in in on the globe
that's you know promoting
interoperability and reducing
self-preferencing over at Apple and
Google um is there a way to sort of take
that off the negotiation table and
encourage that and can we get something
like that in the US? Yeah, I hope the
answer is yes to both. I I think I agree
with you 100% about where we are in
terms of what we should be doing with
Europe. I actually in the first Trump
administration I urged then trade rep
Bob Lighheiser
um to stop going to bat for the big tech
companies on this very issue. I said Bob
why why are you carrying their water? Uh
this is anti-competitive. I mean the
policies they want they're trying to en
enshrine globally. They're trying to get
out of these requirements in Europe.
That that's just anti-competitive. We
shouldn't be helping them with that. We
should be promoting competition in our
market and elsewhere but especially here
at home. So I think your first point is
well taken. Should we do something like
that in the United States? Yeah, we
ought to promote interoperability. We
ought to um make sure that that these
the big incumbents aren't self-p
preferencing, which we know they are. I
mean, Google is being sued for it at the
moment. So, which is hugely promising
incidentally. But uh I feel guilty.
Exactly. Exactly. Right. And you know,
eagerly we await the remedies, but I
think that listen, this is this is
import promoting competition and making
sure that these incumbents cannot act as
monopolists. We have a rich antitrust
tradition in this country for a reason.
And it comes back to my point about
liberty. We have an antitrust tradition.
We have antitrust law because we believe
that liberty and open competition are
intimately connected. And we believe
that those things are the best way to
promote the well-being of normal working
Americans. And just kind of make a point
about jobs. I hear a lot of talk about
how AI is going to is going to create
hundreds of thousands of new jobs. I
hope that that's true. And I hope that
the jobs that are created are good jobs
that you can support a family on, not
sweeping floors at a data center or
mining in Greenland, you know. So, I
mean, I think we need to we need to ask
ourselves what really when we talk about
the promises of this technology and when
we develop the technology, this goes
back to mastering the technologies. We
think about how we develop it and how we
deploy it. We need to deploy it in a way
that enhances the prosperity of your
bluecollar worker, of your middle class
professional, not destroys it. Uh, you
know, maybe AI, you can imagine a world
in which AI would raise the country's
GDP by, you know, maybe multiple
percentage points. But if that is all
captured by a small group here and then
everybody else here working in America
is suffering from it, that's not
progress. That's not progress at all.
And I I want to am I a tech optimist?
I'll be optimistic when this group of
people right here when our middle class
and our working class when they are
benefiting. That's what I what's the
most sort of compelling or like uh
persuasive vision uh that you've heard
that's been articulated along those
lines. Well, I think that hopefully
we'll be able to use AI technology to
increase worker productivity. You know,
so I don't want to see workers be
displaced. I don't want to see the
warehouses completely empty and filled
with robots. I'll just be honest with
you. If that makes me a lite, sign me up
for it. I don't want to see trucks being
driven entirely autonomously and we lose
the entire trucking industry in the
United States of America. I I I don't
want to see that. Now, if you tell me
there's another vision of that future
where actually we can enhance the
productivity of the factory, we can h
enhance the productivity of real workers
in the warehouse. We can get those gains
that lead to higher wages. Sign me up
for that. That's I think where we need
to go and what we need to do. But I
think this is again these are choices.
These are social choices that we need to
make. And I hope that when I say we, I
mean as a society. I don't necessarily
mean as government. Um, but we we need
to I think think seriously about what
what kind of future do we want to have
here. And a future in which we have an
economy that works for a group of people
in Silicon Valley, God love them, and a
group of people in Wall Street, but
nobody else and everybody else has to be
sustained by government payments. That's
not good. Like that. We don't want that
society. We want a society of
broad-based prosperity and that's what
we ought to be using the technology for.
I really um respect you, Senator Holly,
because you were kind of like the OG on
on these issues in the Republican party.
Uh I I will never forget getting sort of
an alert. I think it was in 2017 when
you were attorney general and it was
like just out of the blue because I'd
been going around to state capitals and
talking to a lot of AG offices,
educating them on um on Google issues.
had not yet made a stop to Missouri and
then out of the blue just flies it drops
from the sky uh Attorney General Josh
Ali from the state of Missouri is uh
bringing antitrust suit against Google.
I was like wow and then I think I got on
a plane to St. Louis that or to
Jefferson City that day. Um you know I
uh you have moved the Overton window uh
in the Republican party and the Senate
and you know having lived now in
Washington for about 10 years and
working on these issues. I mean, part of
the whole idea of creating sort of a
government relations position within uh
Y Cominator is that this town sometimes
feels like a Truman show run by big
tech. The between the think tanks, the
uh the the front groups, the interest
groups, the the law firms, uh uh the the
econ firms, it is it's, you know, you
throw a rock, you're going to hit
somebody on uh Google, Apple, Facebook,
Amazon, Microsoft, uh pay uh payroll.
And I'm curious like how do you how do
you navigate do do they just kind of
leave you alone? I mean is it kind of
like you know I imagine like lobbyists
don't like knock on Bernie Sanders's
door, you know, these people who sort of
have stereotypically kind of uh you know
positioned themselves in sort of
adversarial ways against particular
industries. um like you you have a front
row view to how Washington operates and
I'm curious like what are the
um you know what is kind of the most
disgusting thing you seeing how to
basically sort of articulate that sort
of how the this works we had uh Brody
Mullins the author of Wolves of K Street
all about the the history of the
industry give us a little insight into
that into that world and then tell us
how you think if you're like the two
guys in a garage and you've got Maybe
you've raised a couple million. You've
got a a cool promising idea. You
definitely don't have enough to afford a
law, a lobbying firm or whatever. How
should they be navigating Washington
besides calling me? Well, so two-part
question. Number one, you know, for the
second yuckiest K Street stuff and how
do you how do we help how does little
tech help itself? Little tech is always
is always welcome in the Holly office
and we don't talk much of big tech or
when I say not much, I mean at all. Um,
I think uh I've I've joked, but it's
only like 5% joking, that the Senate
ought to have a plaque on the door that
says property of big tech because
seriously just about nothing moves
across that floor that big tech doesn't
want. If they don't sign off on it and
it it doesn't I've learned it doesn't
matter what party's in charge. The
Democrats were just in charge for four
years. To be honest, I actually thought
that might be maybe that would help on
some of these tech issues. Didn't at
all. Chuck Schumer wouldn't bring up
anything of of any import for a vote. We
got unanimous, amazingly in the Senate
Judiciary Committee, Senator Durban and
I were able to work together on really
significant legislation in order to get
rid of CISAM sexual exploitation
material uh to get rid of that online uh
that went right at these these big
incumbents in companies. It was passed
unanimously out of the judiciary
committee. Yeah. And couldn't get a
vote. Couldn't get a vote. So listen,
nobody has more power in Washington DC
than big tech. And I remember, you know,
do they talk to me? No. I remember when
Mark Zuckerberg the last time Mark
Zuckerberg came to see me um in person
um he and I famously we've had a number
of gorounds and committees. He was at
the Oval Office while Bannon was on
stage today and I'm sure saw a tweet
today. I'm I'm sure. Um, but he came to
see me. I guess it would have been in in
2020 at some point and I at the at that
time I was I was challenging him to spin
off Instagram and I think he had this
idea that well I'll sit down with Holly
and and I'll explain things to him and
he'll understand that what he's saying
is ridiculous and he'll understand that
of course then Facebook now Meta ought
to be able to be allowed to do whatever
they want. So, um, the meeting didn't go
very well, uh, because it's I'd start
out with me saying, "So, when are you
gonna spin off Instagram?" And he looked
at me and he was like, "That's the
dumbest thing I've ever heard." And I
said, "This is not going to be a very
good meeting." And it all it was just
downhill from there. So, since then, I
don't think we've spoken to any of the
tech incumbents. They just don't bother
with me anymore. They know what my
position is going to be. But, but my
view is this, like, we it should not be
that the Senate is bought and paid for
by big tech. It should be to go back to
your example of a couple of folks in a
in a garage. Uh they ought to be able to
think, hey, I've got a this is America.
If I invent something that's great, I
should have a great shot to be able to
bring that to market to scale it up if
I'm able to do so. It shouldn't be that
you've got there's these two or three
monopolists who are suffocating the
entire market, suffocating competition,
and that's exactly what they're doing.
And and we all know it. They've been
doing it for years. And we've got to
stop it. And really there needs to be
there needs to be more movement in the
court system. But we need to think about
what we can do legislatively to make
antirust enforcement tougher to put more
teeth into it uh to give individuals
more control over their personal
property rights and to promote
competition. But is there I mean is it
does it mean sort of is it campaign
finance? Is it overturning Citizens
United? like it seems like the core of
it is some kind of uh it's it's you know
I think they uh said they spent $270
million to killa a few years ago and so
what how does this little tech have a
fighting chance? I don't have an answer.
I I'm I'm like just I you know are there
more foundational things that have to be
tackled there or is it I mean I think
our hope is that you know authentic
stories of founders and kind of speaking
as sort of a a hive uh will will help
kind of counter counter it but you know
I'm I'm like
legitimately you know looking for ideas
about what we can do to to sort of I
mean do does authent I guess what I
should say is does authenticity do those
authentic stories matter in Congress? or
at the end of the day are is there some
secret deal that causes, you know, the
leader to not bring it to the floor?
Well, I think I think that the stories
really do matter and the proof of that
is it's very hard to vote for the
monopolists and against startups,
against innovators, against entre
entrepreneurs. It's very hard to vote
for the monopolists and against victims
if you actually have to go on the
record. And this is why a year ago in
the Senate Judiciary Committee when
Senator Durban and I were able to put
together this bill on CESAM material and
actually Durban as chair insisted on a
vote to his great credit because his own
party tried to talk him out of it. He
insisted on a vote and lo and behold the
vote becomes unanimous. Why? Because
when they actually have to put their
dime down, it is impossible to explain
to constituents. Impossible to explain
why you voted against victims of sexual
exploitation. I think the same is true
for almost all of this. This is why
senators desperately try to keep these
bills out of committee and off the
floor. They don't want to vote on them,
and it's why big tech does the same.
They want to make sure there's no light
of day. So, I think what needs to
happen, sunshine. I mean, we we need
more transparency and frankly, we need a
few people with courage on key
committees who are willing to say, I'm
going to introduce the legislation. I'm
going to force a vote on the
legislation. I'm going to put people on
record and if you want to overturn
Citizens United as part of that package,
I'm all for that. I think that case is
wrong to decide. So, we've got 19
seconds on the shot clock here. So, yes
or no question. Does do you think are
you more optimistic? I mean, I guess
this is actually an easy question. Are
you more optimistic um with Senator Thun
in charge of the Senate that something
like that could come to the floor? Yeah,
I hope so. I mean, I have to be um as a
Republican, I kind of believe in my
team. Um but but I hope that he would
look and just see and and look at the
look at the bipartisan support, but also
just look at the facts. I mean, just ask
yourself, do you want to have
competitive markets in this country or
not? Do you want to have individuals who
have some control over their lives,
victims who have some means of redress
or not? And do you want the country to
be run by oligarchs or not? I mean
that's really at the end of the day a
foundational question. Who should have
the power in the country? Should it be
the American people? Should it be the
middle class? Should it be entrepreneurs
and innovators? Should it be the
upstarts? Or should it be this small
group of incumbents who want to control
the power? We've had to answer this
question over and over in American
history. At key points, we have always
answered it. We want the power to be
here. We want the people to have the
power. We want markets to be open. We're
in another period where we need to
answer it again. And I hope that my
party, which was the original antitrust
party, I like to say Republicans
basically invented antitrust. Theore
Roosevelt, my political hero, the
greatest antitrust president still ever.
I wrote a book about him years ago uh
when I was at Stanford and uh I still
think we have a lot to learn from him
and I hope that today's Republican party
will draw on and once again reclaim that
legacy. Senator Holly, uh please give a
round of applause for Senator Holly.
Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. Really appreciate you coming.
All right. Thanks so much. Thank you.
Thank you. Okay. I've got to come back
over here
now. We all have my slides sorted
out.
Okay. Are
we Oh, no. We've got David first.
Sorry. So, uh that was awesome. Uh we're
now going to move on to another uh
founder demo. Uh David Malot is the
co-founder of Hawkloo. Uh he is based in
Washington DC which is awesome. Um we
should hang out uh more often. Um he
co-founded Haklu in 2020 with um his CEO
Hassan Sed after meeting at University
of Maryland. Uh in October 2024 the
company secured four million in seed
funding led by 8VC with participation
from YC Correlation Ventures, Wavefinder
Ventures, uh TDF ventures. lot holds a
bachelor's degree in marketing
information systems from University of
Maryland. Let's give it up for David.
Oh, here we go. It's a
little
think Oh, wait. I might have
There we go. Did I get Okay, so that's
your monitor.
Oops.
used
to it.
You can drag it up.
Yeah. Think I'd be better at this. All
righty.
You all good? Yeah. Well, we're sticking
on the same topic. Uh, so I appreciate
your guys patience uh with this, but um
yeah, thanks a ton for joining me today.
So, as he said, I'm David Malot. I'm one
of the co-founders here at Hawklue and
uh I'm also here to talk about data
operability. Um so for a little bit of
context, Hawklue is a tool that helps
other companies offer integrations to
their customers. So if you were building
a billing platform, uh maybe you want to
offer accounting integrations to your
customers. Hawk is a company that helps
software companies today facilitate
those integrations. So for us, data
operability is a super critical issue.
But I think what I want to talk about
today is a little bit more about how it
really affects innovation and
competition kind of in our entire
economy. So um see if I can get this to
move. There we go. Uh let's start with
why access to data is so vital in
today's kind of digital landscape. Um so
in the AI era, access to data literally
decides whether or not a company is
competitive. And so AI startups need
these massive data sets to to train
competitive models. and um they face a
fundamental disadvantage uh against
established players who already control
these vast data resources. So at
Hawkloo, we've seen firsthand now uh how
innovation can flourish uh when
companies have access and control to
their customers data with consent uh
especially for AI powered solutions. But
there's a significant thing standing in
the way and that's essentially a data
monopoly problem. And so for major tech
companies uh they've created these
monopolies by hoarding user data. And so
what I mean by that is AI development uh
is becoming increasingly centralized
amongst a handful of tech giants. And
this forces smaller companies to resort
to alternatives. This includes legally
risky things like web scraping. And then
if they don't take that risk they're
also left to rely on much smaller data
sets and develop much more inferior
models. And so if we look at Tik Tok as
an example, their algorithmic advantage
comes directly from extensive data
collection that competitors just simply
can't match. And so to understand where
we stand today, um Europe's taken a big
step here with with GDPR article 20 and
kind of the establishment of like
protected portability rights for
individuals. Meanwhile, we've fallen a
bit behind uh to we failed to enact the
ADPA
um in 2023. Uh, and this included many
tech giants who were actually preparing
for that bill to pass. Um, but kind of
as the the conversation before alluded
to, the bill didn't make it to the floor
partially due to lobbying efforts uh by
big tech and they lobbyed the fact that
it would change their business models
and that would be a detriment to
American society. And so we do have some
promising examples uh of companies that
have been successful with this model
though. So there's a company called
Plaid. They're a financial integration
platform and they exemplify this today.
And so Plaid created a common model that
allowed software companies to reliably
with consumer consent uh connect to your
financial data. So I don't know if any
of you have ever used like a Rocket
Bill, a True Money, any of those kinds
of things, but when you've connected
your credit card or your bank account,
that's actually being done by this
company called Plaid that made it really
easy for software companies to be able
to authenticate with your banking
systems. So when we look at the most
compelling case study of of how this
data operability is going to work, the
UK actually launched something called
the open banking initiative in uh 2018.
Um this required their nine largest
banks to actually make the data from
those banks accessible to licensed
startups. And so by January of 2024,
about a fifth of small businesses in the
UK are actually using products that use
that data that would not have been
available without the open banking
initiative. This is like accounting
software with like direct bank
connections or tools that aggregate data
across accounts. And so the regulations
are even getting to a point where big
tech companies like Apple are now having
to comply with the open banking
initiative in the UK, meaning you can
actually integrate your banking directly
with your Apple wallet now in the UK.
Okay. And that's something that Apple
had to change uh to to comply with the
open banking initiative. So this kind of
brings me to what I think we can do in
the US. And so the vision here is we do
need a federal data portability
regulation. Um I think it would
transform the way uh our digital
landscape kind of is. And so first it
comes with startup growth. And so today
startups need to build their own data mo
from scratch. And so with data
portability, companies could focus on
creating better services rather than
just accumulating data. So imagine if
you could share your content preferences
from Instagram uh to another product as
easily as you can export a document.
This shifts competition from who has the
most data to who creates the best
experience. And second, innovation
acceleration. And so data probabil
portability enables like smaller
companies to build big and fast. And so
imagine you were a healthcare startup
that could analyze the spending
patterns, fitness data, medical records,
all with your consent uh and provide
personalized wellness uh guidance. These
cross-domain applications are completely
impossible today uh in the siloed data
environment unless you're in big tech.
Third, let's enable competition with
established API frameworks. Right now,
competition
policy focuses on breaking up big tech
uh which is difficult. uh APIs are kind
of the highway of today's um kind of
digital economy and so um oops sorry uh
and so we need to make sure that we kind
of continue to
uh understand and build an API framework
that makes it easily accessible for all
companies. And lastly, I just want to
quickly talk about the economic impact
before I get off the stage. Uh McKenzie
estimated that this data operability
just in the finance sector by 2030 would
increase our GDP by 1 to one and a
half%. So this is a few hundred billion
dollar economic decision, not just kind
of pennies in the bucket. So that's kind
of what I wanted to share about. I know
I didn't have that much time. So um I
don't think it's just a technical issue.
We've seen this be really effective for
companies and important in terms of
making competition uh easier in the
American uh space. And so I think it's
time for the US to catch up with this.
I'm pretty passionate about this topic.
So if you do want to chat or anything,
let me know. But otherwise, thank you
guys so much for your time.
very relevant to what you guys were
talking about.
[Applause]
Wow. Woo.
[Applause]
That's the first time that's happened
today. That's
exciting. Um, we're so Is everybody
having a good time? We're so We're so
thrilled. Uh, we've just had some
amazing conversations in both sides of
the aisle. Um and we're so thrilled to
be hosting um uh Senator Corey Booker um
who's going to uh give some remarks. He
um is only going to go for 25 hours. And
uh
um please welcome to the stage, Senator
Man needs no introduction, Senator Cory
Booker of New Jersey and our
new the new ranking member of the
antirust uh subcommittee
uh Senator. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. All right, everybody. I am a little
uh ginger on my feet right now. Um but
uh my staff wrote me this really great
speech that I don't feel fully in the
mood to write read. Um but I'm going to
put it up here and reference it from
time to time.
Um I was so excited when my staff told
me about this before the fact that I
realized I would have been up a long
time the night before. Um but I'm really
excited just to be in a community of
people that believes in a lot of the
same core values that I do. I I think
human history and American history is in
particular are perpetual testimony to
the achievement of impossible things. I
think innovators and artists and people
who can
see beauty and possibility are the most
valuable people there are. When I first
um came out of law school um I had a
mother that said to me, this is like one
of the greatest things gifts she's ever
given to me. In fact, what she said to
me is on my desk, she said to me, um, I
didn't know what I wanted to do with my
career, with my life, and she just asked
me this basic question and demanded that
I answer it. She said, "What would you
do if you knew you couldn't fail? I want
you to go and do that." And I didn't
have an answer to her, but she what she
did was trigger me to have a bigger
imagination. And so, I started making a
list of the most inspiring people in my
world that I could think of. And on that
list were Brian Stevenson, who was this
at the time not as well known, but he's
a was a death penalty defender that
stood in the darkest uh most forgotten
places and stood up for the people that
everybody else wanted to condemn. On my
list was a woman named Marian Wright
Edelman. She led something called the
Children's Defense Fund. And I just
believed back then, as I do now, that
genius is the most valuable thing on on
the planet. In fact, the most valuable
natural resource, not gold or oil, the
most valuable natural resource in our
world is the genius of our children. And
it's equally distributed around the
planet. There's as many geniuses being
born in Beverly Hills as there are being
born per capita in Newark, New Jersey.
And the problem we had as a country is
we weren't cultivating and unleashing
that genius on the world. How many
Einsteins or Picassos did we not get a
chance to experience because they did
not have a fair environment to grow up
in? And another person on the list
though was Jeffrey Canada, a guy who was
a MacArthur got a MacArthur genius grant
because he went into the toughest
neighborhoods in Harlem and just started
serving people and created something
called the Harlem Children Zone. I
decided he was my model after the most
of them were generous enough to let me
follow them around and I moved to Newark
to do what he did in Harlem. I moved
into the toughest neighborhood I could
find and I was overwhelmed by what I
saw. First time I would go to sleep
hearing
gunshots and I was I was afraid. But uh
there's an old saying and I think I
experienced a little bit of that last um
Monday um that when you come to the end
of all the light you know and you have
the courage as many of the entrepreneurs
in this room do have the courage to step
out there in pursuit of your dreams that
out of your comfort zone into that
darkness and faith is knowing one of two
things are going to happen. Either
you're going to find solid ground
underneath you or the universe will send
you people uh that'll teach you how to
fly. And so I come to Newark and I meet
this extraordinary entrepreneur
uh otherwise the tenant president of
these high-rise
projects who looked at me when I said to
her, "I'm Corey Booker. I'm from Yale
Law School. I'm here to help you." And
she looked at me like I needed help. And
in fact, at that point, I really did.
And she did this test to me. She had me
come downstairs in the projects where
she lived on the fifth floor. We went
down the elevator into the middle of the
street, Martin Luther King Boulevard,
and she says, "What do you see around
you?" And I go, "What do you mean?" She
goes, "Scribe my neighborhood." And I
described it sort of like I described to
you before. There was a crack house on
the corner. Uh um a project. I just
described it. The more I talked, the
more upset with me she looked. And then
eventually
uh she said, "You can't help me." And
she starts walking away from me. And I
chase after her and and grab her from
behind very very respectfully. And I
say, "What are you talking about?" And
she said, "Boy, you need to understand
something. The world you see outside of
you is a reflection of what you have
inside of you. And if you're one of
these people who only sees darkness and
despair and problems, that's all there's
ever going to be. But if you're one of
those people that when you open your
eyes, you see
possibilities, you see hope, you see
opportunity, you see love, you see the
face of God, then you're one of those
people that can help me. And she left me
on the street looking at my shoes,
thinking to myself, "Okay, grasshopper,
thus ended the lesson.
I have been blown away to come out of
Stanford in the 1990s and meet these
visionary entrepreneurs that had that
kind of
spirit. I I I mean my life has been so
enriched by the innovator, the
entrepreneur, the
visionary and what we need is an
environment that helps to create a
nurturing soil for more of that to
happen.
I I think that one of the most important
things we need to be talking about in
America now first is creating a fair
level playing
field. But that's the
foundation. We need to start talking
about how we are going to
boldly push the limits of what's
possible in
humanity. And I hate that we are only
looking left and right right now. We're
not looking up. we're only looking at
the other side or the other side what
they're doing and we're not looking to
the skies. When I was at Stanford as a
football player and I realized I could
really help in East PaloAlto just by
showing up with my jersey and I was
working with these kids and I had this
what I thought as a 19-year-old a
profound exercise that I've done with
rooms like this before where I asked
people to raise their hands as high as
you can and then people usually do and
then I say, "Okay, go three inches
higher." And and people strain and then
they realize, "Wait a minute, I'm
sitting down. I could have stood up."
And it was always my lesson. you can
always do more. Your your thoughts, your
vision. And so I did this with these
kids and the kids said they didn't want
to do it. And I resorted to a form of
persuasion with these kids often
associated with my profession, bribery.
Um I I pulled out a $5 bill and I said,
"$5 to the kid who can keep raises hand
the highest." And I love capitalism.
These kids were innate capitalists. They
did the costbenefit analysis and they
realized, okay, the effort's worth it,
five bucks. and they shot their hands in
the air. And now they're all competing
against each other. And I'm about to
pounce on them with my profound lesson
of a 19-year-old. And then I see the
youngest kid with his arms crossed, his
face in a pout. He's the shortest of the
lot. He came from a difficult home. And
the last person I wanted to squelch
their imagination. And so I was about to
step towards him
to just hug him and comfort him. And
then he makes a beline, sprints out of
the room. And I run after him, grab him
from behind, and I said, 'Robert, where
are you going? And he starts struggling.
And I go, 'What's wrong? He said, 'You
said you'd give $5 to the kid who can
raise his hand the highest,
right? And I said, Yeah. And he goes,
"Well, I know a way to get to the
roof. That's that's where we need to be
in America right now.
I it pains me to have and and I hope
that I'm the filming people here won't
be upset, but I'd rather come down. It
pains me right now that we have a
country where we spend so much of our
energy talking about other people and
not talking about possibilities.
It pains me right now that our sense of
patriotism is getting lost as people
with power and pieces of people with
advantage often are thinking about how
they can get more power and more
advantage to the point where it's not
fair
anymore. It pains me that we've created
an environment where our genius doesn't
thrive. I got to, and this is where I
give a lot of credit to my Republican
colleagues for hammering these
nails over and over and over again, but
I came to Washington as uh this
entrepreneurial mayor who was already
frustrated with regulations because they
stopped me from doing or tried to stop
me from doing big things in New York
that could have helped a lot of people,
but I had to deal with the EPA. I had to
deal with I could go through stories
that I don't have time for unless this
is a 25 hour speech.
But I got on the commerce
committee and I saw in the on the
commerce committee that everywhere I
looked, government was
overregulating
entrepreneurs. I'll give you some
examples of I I knew the person. They
started a company called 23 and me back
then. It was so hot, so exciting. But
the FDA said, "Nope, sorry. You can't do
this. You can't scrape your cheeks, send
it off, and get back information." I was
like, "What are you kidding me?" Then
there was a nuclear regulations.
Everybody, I grew up not uh uh with a
lot of scary stories about about
nuclear. But I started seeing that the
next generation nuclear modular nuclear.
It it it was like science fiction. It
could solve our energy problems. But I
was hearing stories that nuclear
regulators were leaving the United
States because we had such an a
regulatory framework that it wasn't
allowing the people to do the research
and do the work. We were losing nuclear
scientists. One of my favorite examples
uh was the drone industry. I started
talking to these these innovators in the
drone industry, talking to me about what
drones could do and then seeing examples
from other countries that these drones
could fix poles where we in America were
having people dying in that dangerous
job or do mine surveys in places that
are dangerous. But the only licenses the
FAA was releasing was to the movie
industry. And these innovators were
saying, "This is crazy." I I finally had
my chance. the F head of the FAA comes
in and I said, "Sir, if you were around
during the time of Orville and Wilbur
Wright, we would have never got the
airline industry off the
ground." I I I think bureaucracy can be
stifling. I think
that we as America should be having our
economy and our government move at the
speed of innovation and help and empower
innovators because that to me is the
hope. There are problems right now that,
as I like to think, I'm imaginative,
creative, that we don't know how to
solve right now. It's like that story in
New York about their big health problem
where they had piles and piles of
just everywhere, horseshit. I know you
think that that's kind of Washington,
but this was literal horseshit. Um, and
and they couldn't figure out how to
solve the problem. They had commissions
come together. What are they going to do
with all the horseshit on the island?
Dumping into the river created horrible
pollution. And then finally one day the
problem was gone because of something
people couldn't imagine or see. The
automobile was
invented. I I fear we need a restart in
our country. We really do. Somebody
needs to say time out. That every
problem of my life is not Donald Trump
and every problem of his life isn't pick
your person, Chuck Schumer or Hakee
Jeff. that the real problem is not
people. It's our ability to begin to
re-imagine
possibility. Now look, I I am
worried I'm not giving a pass to
anybody. I mean to me the most important
thing we start with is just fairness.
Like every American has this compass and
then like is this fair or not? Well,
there are a lot of things happening
right now that just aren't fair and are
anti-democratic. this this value of of
being in a capitalist entrepreneurial
society and a and a and a and a
multicultural democracy I think they're
not compet competitive I think they fit
together so well that the principles of
democracy the values that this country
are founded with is the secret sauce for
our capitalist system when it's fair
when we focus on that value of fairness
this is why I love that our founders
worked so hard these imperfect geniuses
that wouldn't have seen my dignity at
the time but they were still geniuses is
because they grappled. They said this is
not going to be a nation formed on on on
a monarchy, divine rights of kings and
queens. We're not going to be theocracy.
We are going to try to make a nation
built on values, shared values, the
highest ideals of humanity. I think
that's what's informed our democracy at
the
best. But when we veer away from our
democratic traditions, when it's a zero-
sum game, winner take all, crush the
competition, even if you're violating
your values, that's not fairness. That
hurts
everybody. And so I was excited when my
staff said, "Get on the antitrust
committee." My staff comes to me with
all the great ideas. And then I take
credit for them.
We jumped on the antitrust committee
because we saw that entrepreneurs,
business people were getting crushed in
areas that that made no sense. That was
not
fair. I our food system is a screaming
example to people with advantage
compounding their advantage forming
these
anti-democratic anti-American values
situation and hurting everybody.
I went out uh west to to visit with
farmers because
farmers it's horrible what's been
happening. We don't talk about it but
thousands and thousands of farmers going
out of business as these massive
concentrations in the food industry are
happening disappearing family farmers.
And I went out and I told the people my
sherpas I want to meet Republican
farmers farmers who probably don't like
me. And we did. We went to these
farmers. I still remember this one guy
coming out to me. Um he looked mean
looked like was angry at me. And I knew
that he he only understood who I was
through the lens of of of reactionary
hate media. And I'm not saying that's
only on the right. And I tried to loosen
him up when he was showing me his cows.
And I go, "Sir, these cows are utterly
amazing." I milked every cow joke I
could find. Um, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
What do you call a guy with no kids who
still tells dad jokes? A faux paw. Um,
this is a tough crowd. This is a tough
crowd. You guys are tough. It's been a
long day, huh?
I sat down at the table with these guys
and we started talking about
concentration proudly. They had their
original deeds from five generations
ago, but now they told me that math
didn't work for them anymore. They told
me about that their dads used to have
five people competing for their goods.
Now there was only one buyer. The guy,
his neighbor, he kept pushing him, tell
him, tell him. The neighbor was afraid
to even speak for fear that the company
would find out and just punish them, cut
them off. I I see what's happening in
the chicken and the the the the pig
industries where they've there's no more
independent farmers. They're all
contract farmers being dictated to
companies. They don't even know the
prices they're going to get. They create
these illegal things. I think they're
illegals. I put bills to try to stop
them uh uh called a tournament system,
but they don't even know how they're
being. There's no transparency.
There's such corporate concentration
there that that and lack of enforcement
of the Stockyard and Packers Act. It's
outrageous. The whole food industry is
like that. Upton Sinclair wrote the
jungle about the same problem. Corporate
concentration resulting in horrific
working conditions. It's a scary book.
It exposed it. Some incredible people
who said, "Nope, we need competition. We
need to break it up." But guess what's
happened since the 1980s?
The industry has reconentrated more
concentrated than it was when Emplair
wrote about it. And everybody is getting
hurt. Everybody gets hurt from a system
like that. Now, I live in Newark, New
Jersey. As I told you before, I'm hurt
by this broken food system and this
corporate concentration. How am I hurt
by it? Well, we've decided government to
pick winners and losers. We've decided
we're going to use all of our money.
93% of your a subsidies that you pay for
go to big corporate a that produces five
commodity crops. We have subsidized a
broken system that only subsidizes those
crops. You grow fruits and vegetables.
You're not getting any subsidies.
They're called specialy crops. So what
does that create? It creates a situation
where my kids in Newark walk into a
bodega and a Twinkie product is cheaper
than an apple. Not because of the true
true cost, not because of the free
market, but because we government have
corrupted the system along with big
monopolies and have created a system
that is actually making Americans sick.
Our grandparents didn't have these
diabetes rates, these hypertension
rates, these stroke rates, these cancer
rates. There's no fairness here. It's
choking democracy.
And so I I see that there my clock is
running out here and I haven't even
gotten to the points I want to make. But
the fair unfairness is crazy. And this
is where I get upset. Let's call balls
and
strikes. The FTC, we we don't want a
system where a big per bully, a powerful
person comes in and fires that. We
benefit from having this idea of
Democrats and Republicans on the
committee bringing their ideas. That's
ridiculous. Let me give you another
thing that's crazy. Mergers. Right now,
I talked to a merger attorney. He's a
friend of mine before here talking about
all these firms having to make the
terrible decision. If you're doing M&A
at a big firm, you need to come to the
government, work with the government.
Now, we have a leader in our country
that's basically saying, you need to
come and count to me if your firm is
going to
survive because you're not going to get
a fair shake on whether your clients and
and and the M. No, you need to come to
me and couch out to me. As I said last
night in this long speech, it's not ask
not what your country can do for you,
what you can do for your country. It's
ask not what your country can do for
you, but just tell me what you can do
for
me. We have to get back to a nation that
has this audacious sense of possibility.
And then we need to create a fair
democratic capitalist environment where
people can compete where once you come
be successful you don't get to punish
and stop. Big tech doesn't get to punish
little tech and say hey you
don't you don't have the ability to be
as big and as successful as I am because
I'm going to use all my
market bullying to stop you. That's
that's not fair. I I can't believe I I I
that the that the this administration
has decided, oh, we're going to drop
cases against PBMs. You guys know what
PBMs are? This is one of the reasons why
the anti-competitive practices that are
driving up the cost of our prescription
drugs to the way that is just again a
perversion of the free market and our
democratic principles. And I tell you
what, it hurts people.
One of the biggest problems right now is
that most Americans, justifiably so,
think the system is screwing them.
Everywhere they look, the system is
screwing them. And you know
what? They're kind of
right. Big concentration in the drugs
that they depend upon, in the food that
is causing them to be sick and need the
drugs in the first place. I could go on
and on and on. It is these big corporate
concentrations that's created not a fair
system that is screwing them
over. And so that should be a bipartisan
cause. Create fair markets, fair
systems, get rid of the hyper
bureaucracy, make it easier for
innovators and entrepreneurs to innovate
and to create a tomorrow. Now, I'm over
my time. I want to finish with a story
because I'm in love with a couple
things. I'm in love with the arts and
I'm in love with with tech and
innovation. So, why am I doing what I'm
doing? I don't know. But God, going to
Stanford in the in the 90s, late
80s, it was so exciting to be in Silicon
Valley during that period. But I want to
end with a story about that because my
dad was born poor. And if he was here,
he'd heckle me. Said, "Don't tell those
innovators I was poor. Tell him the
truth. I was po. I couldn't afford the
other two
letters." He was poor in the South. And
this is the story I want to end
on. Single mother. I I I have my whole
family tree now back into slavery. It
was all poverty, single mother's poverty
till my dad 1936 he was born and his
mother couldn't take care of him. He
found the I call it a conspiracy of
love. People taking care of him in the
community, sent him off to college, got
the money uh uh from a church collection
plate to enroll in North Carolina
Central and H.B.CU. Ended up here in
Washington to people who are committed
to fairness. This is why all this stuff
about diversity, equity, and inclusion,
it bothers me. There was a tech company
at the time that was like, "We need to
make sure that when we're looking for
the most qualified people, we have an
applicant pool that really
is representing all the people." So,
they were looking for people that
graduated from H.B.CU to say, "Hey,
let's find actually the best a merit
system." And and my dad became IBM's
first black salesman. a tech company
changed his destiny at a at the at the
dawn of the computer age where there was
this incredible triumphant a special
American thing that now China is trying
to do. It was this combination between
academia. Why the hell are we cutting
science and research to academia cutting
overhead costs? It's killing the goose
that's laying the golden egg. It was
academia. It was government doing things
right. Funding research around
mainframes and more. using top
innovations to keep our country safe and
strong. And it was industry, it was
entrepreneurs that were getting it done.
It was an exciting time. And here is
this kid who gets a job with that
company. But my dad tells me about the
arts. He says, "I I couldn't believe it.
When I was a kid in a segregated
balcony, I watched this show about a guy
who was who was in this place that
looked like a a different planet. It was
for a kid in rural South. It was a place
that had all these big buildings. It was
Manhattan. And the guy was getting by on
his salesmanship because he was just
nice and kind and could talk to anybody
and was successful. And so my dad gets
hired by MBM. Those are the the the
professional traits he admired. And next
thing you know, he is
IBM's one of their top global salesmen.
He's in their 5% the the the IBM golden
circle selling computers and all the
innovations that innovators are doing.
And he gets hired to go to the corporate
headquarters, Madison Avenue, New York.
That's how I ended up in New Jersey. And
now he's crushing it. But suddenly he
stops one day on a street corner looking
at these big buildings and goes, "Holy
crap." This was a vision planted in my
head as a little boy in a segregated
balcony. It was art that inspired
me. Innovators at a time that we were
enforcing antitrust laws. At a time that
we were working with lots of different
companies. My dad knew competition. Oh,
Xerox's doing this. This company's doing
this. I got to make my quotas. I got to
explain why my products are better. When
the products were crap, he would go back
and tell people, "This product's crap.
We got to do it better." Well, this is
how the story
ends. My dad gets
Parkinson's. How dare we cut science and
innovation? I could tell you stories
right now about us cutting money going
to colleges for whatever reason we're
mad at colleges. Oh, let's show our
anger by cutting scientist money.
They're cutting off PhD programs.
They're cutting down the number of
posttos they take. There are people
researching Parkinson's right now and
dementia that are not getting a chance
to do what they're doing. My dad is
dying of that disease and we go to
Israel. My last chance to take my dad on
a trip and my mom says, "I thought you
said a beach someplace, but we're in
Israel." And my dad does something I
that scares me. He starts looking at
this city that we're in and starts
sunsetting. If anybody who has a father
or mother or knows somebody with
Parkinson's where he starts sunsetting,
you go back to this time that things
were great and suddenly he's talking as
if he's in the 1980s and he's talking
like a salesman would. He goes, "Look at
the opportunity here. Whoever has this
this sector could sell a lot of
computers, could sell a lot of laptops."
And I'm looking at this man and thinking
he's joking at first, but he's not
joking. This man suffering from
dementia, thinks it's the 1980s. And I
said, "Dad,
dad, do you have children?" He goes,
"Oh, I've got these two great boys.
There's nothing they can't achieve." He
starts going on as two children, looking
at his child. And I go, "How old are
they?" He goes, "They're eight and
six." And I looked at my father and I
said, "Dad, I'm your child. I'm your
son." And suddenly it clicked back into
him what had happened to him. And he
starts crying.
He realizes how sick he is and he's
terrified. This strong, beautiful man
knows he's got a debilitating
disease. My dad then started to realize
this is the last time. I don't know
what's going to happen to me. I want to
start telling my son everything that he
had already taught me, everything that
he had already infused into my very
being. But one of the things he tried to
tell me, I want to leave you
with. He said,
"Son, I want you to be kind. I want you
to be
fair. And with grit and guts and
sacrifice, I want you to change this
world." Well, to the innovators here and
anybody that's hearing my
voice, be kind, be good to one
another, be fair, demand fairness,
demonstrate fairness. And I know in that
position I'm going to try to be one of
the people that creates a fairer
system. And then most importantly of
all, be audacious. Be bold. We need you.
We need the innovators, the
entrepreneurs, the artists of
imaginations to change this world. Thank
you.
Senator Cory
[Applause]
Booker. All right, we ran slightly over
uh but we'll we're just going to go
through the uh we're just going to run
it through the tape. I know some folks
probably are hopefully the gossip's
gotten around a little little after uh
party after. I hope to see some of you
there. Uh we've got a really exciting
panel uh and then one more uh founder
demo and then uh some final remarks and
then we will be at the finish line. So
please uh bear with us for just a little
bit longer. Uh I'm really excited to
introduce this panel. I'm first going to
talk about the moderator Austin Carson.
Uh I'm sorry, Austin Bishop. Uh Austin
Carson is another guy. Uh Austin Bishop
is the chief executive officer and
co-founder of the New American
Industrial Alliance. Uh Austin um has
created this organization. wife's
cominator is a member of it. It's a
multis- sector trade association
dedicated to revitalizing America's
industrial capabilities. It serves as he
serves as a general partner at uh
Tamarak Global and prior to his role at
NIA and Tamarak, he was head of
America's trading at Marshall Waste, a
uh hedge fund managing 70 billion in
assets. He also co-founded Atomic
Industries and AI powered manufacturing
company. And uh when everybody sits
down, we're going to um and you all can
please come up and sit on stage while I
introduce you. Um uh I want Austin to
take just 45 seconds and tell folks
about NIA because it's doing really
important work. Um Katie McInness uh is
the chief democratic counsel through the
subcommittee on uh antitrust. Uh she uh
has a strong background in competition
policy and regulatory law. She provides
legal and strategic guidance on
antitrust and administrative issues. Her
work supports legislative efforts to
ensure fair uh competition, consumer
protection, and effective regulatory
oversight, strengthening democratic
governance and accountability.
Um, Andrea Gdati uh came all the way
from Brussels. Thank you, Andrea. He's
uh a technologist at uh DG Competition
and with the European Commission. Um he
uh has expertise in digital markets and
competition policy and contributes to
shaping regulatory frameworks that
ensure fair competition innovation in
the digital economy. Uh he works to
support the commission's efforts to
address challenges in the evolving tech
landscape fostering a a competitive and
uh consumer-friendly digital market in
the EU.
Uh and David Lawrence uh is the pol the
policy director of the antitrust
division at the department of justice uh
supervising its appellet competition
policy and international sections um
advising senior leadership on legal
policy issues and enforcement matters.
He's been at the division since 2011 and
since 2016 has been a senior career
adviser in the front offices of four
presidential administrations. Uh in the
Biden admin, he led a drafting of the
2023 merger guidelines and developed the
division's proposed Google search
remedies for uh Assistant Attorney
General Caner. In the first Trump
administration, he served as assistant
attorney general Deler, senior adviser
on AT&T Time Warner merger uh and led
the FCC's review of the T-Mobile Sprint
merger on the detail uh on detail to
chairman of GPI. uh he graduated from
NYU in NYU law and clerked for judges on
uh the second circuit of court of
appeals in the uh United States District
Court for the Southern District of New
York. And last but certainly not least
uh Jamie Suskin is the legislative
director for Senator Marshia Blackburn.
Uh Jamie uh has served for two years as
the senator's technology policy adviser
and in that role she's advised uh on
issues such as data privacy, cyber
security, broadband spectrum, content
moderation, antitrust in addition to
staffing the senator on the Senate uh
committee Senate Commerce Committee on
Consumer Protection uh product safety,
data security, Suskin uh previously
worked on the Hill as chief counsel of
Senator uh Deb Fischer and as an uh FCC
detail uh for the Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science, Transportation,
She also serves as chief of staff to FCC
commissioner um now chair Brandon Carr
as the vice president of uh policy and
regulatory affairs at the consumer
technology association. Uh she's a
Michigander. Uh she earned her JD from
uh the Scalia law school and a bachelor
of arts from University of Michigan. And
one thing I Okay, cool. We've we've
updated the shot clock so we're going to
go slightly shorter so we'll be tighter
on the answers. Uh please give it up for
our panelists.
All right, everyone hear me? I'm really
excited because we did Y Combinator with
my my my first company, but it was
during COVID during the remote batch and
so this is my first time actually at an
official Y Combinator event somehow. Um,
but it's really good to see everyone.
Um, thanks guys for being on stage. Uh,
yeah, just a quick one on on what we've
been working on. I mean, it's been great
to hear, you know, such such myriad
voices on the importance of technology
and innovation and also where that
really overlaps, not just sort of tech
for tech's sake, but understanding that,
you know, our economy is is, you know,
it's it's made up of people and and you
know, like the senator was talking about
earlier, you know, this genius comes
from all over the place, whether it's
where I'm from in the Midwest, where
you're from, and or on the coasts. And I
think we're in a really interesting
position right now where a lot of folks
are realizing um you know the importance
of be able to build and make things in
back in the US and and and and um so
it's been a a real distinguished honor
for me for the last few years to kind of
focus on this broader mission of
re-industrialization. So we we have this
trade called the New American Industrial
Alliance um where YC is a member along
with a lot of other great small
companies all the way to some of the
largest companies in the world. We're
just really focused on uh simple
mission. Countries should have more
sovereignty over where and how things
are made. Um and uh real honored to be
able to be on the stage. And so kind of
with that, I don't want to talk your
guys off and pitch too much. Have a
great uh number of people on the stage.
And Dave, I wanted to start with you. Um
you know, founders in
garages tend to, you know, have a a
former division staffer on retainer.
They tend to not have former division
staffer on retainer. I remember the YC
batch. None of us knew anything about
lobbying. I wasn't in DC at the time.
Um, you
know, while your inboxes are flooded
with white papers or why excluding those
founders from the markets is somehow a
good thing. How are founders and little
tech companies supposed to come in with
concerns and ideas and even be um, you
know, even know the right questions to
even ask?
It's such a great question. I want to
thank Y Combinator for having me. Uh,
this is an incredibly important and
useful event. There are dozens of panels
going on around this city today. I think
that this might be one of the most
important questions and actually this
event is part of the answer. Uh and I
turn it around on government too. How
can policy makers in Washington
or in Brussels be ensuring we're hearing
from little tech? And the reason this
matters for those of you new to the
competition conversation is we're coming
out of a generation of policym
completely dominated by large powerful
companies. As it turns out, this is
pretty easy math. Monopoly power is
profitable. And some of those monopoly
rents get spent on people who wander
this city into just about every office
with stacks of paperwork in their hand.
about why monopoly is a good
thing. That's a problem for us in the
policymaking community. And when I, you
know, when I talk to people outside the
beltway who aren't familiar, they're
just absolutely shocked at how eagerly
and often those lobbyists come into our
doors. I mean, we have a whole new front
office that just started. Every one of
them received multiple phone calls in
their first couple days. I received
multiple phone calls a week from people
paid in the city to do that work. Uh,
and I think the conversation is changing
though. Uh, you saw like when President
Trump nominated Gail Slater, he said big
tech has run wild for years, right? I I
think that this lobbying complex is part
of what he's talking about, but he also
talked about what I see as part of the
solution. He said we need to focus on
fairness for big for little tech as
well. We need that's a direction to us
as policy makers to be listening to the
voices of little tech. And so as we
think about the answer to this
challenge, right, you don't necessarily
have a a big law firm on retainer, you
don't need one. I think one of the
biggest things I have come to realize is
that the little tech community, the
founder community, they're often just
surprised at the idea. They could pick
up the phone and call the antitrust
division. They could read that brief and
see a bunch of people's names on it,
find it on our website, the the phone
numbers are there, and come into our
inboxes. That's definitely what the sort
of monopoly lobbying industrial complex
is doing. And so the number one message
I'd encourage for you all from this
summit and in general is please come to
us, tell us your stories. We need to
hear them and understand them.
I like it. All right. Very open-ended
question for you. Why why should
founders care about the DMA?
Try to keep it to 15 minutes and 13
seconds. Um, thanks for the question.
Thanks for having me. Um I also have to
say sorry that um I'm I'm speaking in
personal capacity and so my views do not
necessarily reflect the position of the
the commission. Um so developers should
care about the DMA because you know a
lot of the conversations that we had
today point to the fact that it's
essentially developers should have more
rights today than than they had before.
And that's exactly what the DMA does. So
the DMA today already creates
opportunities that were not there before
the DMA entered into force. So the DMA
essentially specifies some dos and
don'ts that uh that gatekeepers so big
tech has to has to implement. Um and you
know this creates some very concrete
possibilities that did not exist before
and I just want to give like a very
concrete example. Just two weeks ago, we
adopted a specification decision on
Apple for iOS that really specifies how
Apple should implement interoperability
for certain features in uh in iOS. Um
and one of these for example is access
to uh iOS notifications which is very
useful for thirdparty smart watches.
Another feature is all the
functionalities that are necessary to
build an alternative to airdrop. Uh
which which al of course also opens up a
lot of different uh opportunities
including let's say crossplatform uh
file sharing. So the DMA is already
infor enforced today. the commission is
enforcing it including via these very uh
powerful tools that are specification
decisions that allow us to define
exactly what the company needs to do and
developers should really be involved in
this process as they are. I mean we ran
a public consultation for example but we
would have liked to hear you know from
even more developer that that we heard
about.
How do you uh balance, not to go too off
piece, but sort of
um you know, sort of the the the
reputation I think that a lot of the
larger companies try to uh put on Europe
as being um you
know, against or having having issues
with free speech as being a way to
regulate a lot of these as a way to
regulate around the the real issues like
you're talking about and being an excuse
to not have to comply with things like
DPA, um raising the flag of free speech,
speech in sort of you know what I I find
to be kind of cynical cynical things. Do
you see it the same way? Not to beg the
question. No, I mean I think so
something that was very um clear in the
letter from uh from that the white
combinator sent to to to Donald Trump um
is precisely that I mean the DMA creates
opportunities and this is really you
know we this panel is not about other
regulations. Um, so the the DMA creates
opportunities for little tag that are
necessary for an a level playing field.
So I really think that that's the the
the important message and that play
level playing field of course the
beneficiaries are all uh little tech
players, right? So that that applies to
any player in any juris well not their
jurisdiction but also American companies
let's say. Well, this is I mean we've
managed to have everyone sit in the
perfect order. This is perfect. for the
way I have my questions written. So, um
Jamie Katie, sort of reflect off the
question I asked David earlier. Um how
how should know little tech companies
think about approaching the Hill whether
it's on the House side or the Senate
side? Um you know, what are I don't know
if it's tips and tricks or should they
be approaching um the offices directly
or the committees? I mean, what's the
first thing you would, you know,
recommend these companies and start to
think about, especially if they don't
have a lob, if they can't afford to have
a lobbyist on staff um and they don't
know anyone in DC, where do they start?
Yeah, I mean look it doesn't at least to
my office it doesn't matter if you have
a lobbyist in some cases having a
lobbyist is not a good thing. Um you
know I will say that in my own
experience right like the most powerful
um sort of group we had come to us in
the last congress was you know a group
of berieved moms who we worked with on
kids online safety act right these
aren't lobbyists like these are moms you
know they found one um advocacy group
that worked with them but like these are
just regular parents who you know have a
story to tell um you know I would say in
my office um we're sort of willing to
like take the meeting unless you seem
like a serial killer or like a crazy
Um, so like come right like if you have
a good story to tell, come tell the
story. Like be prepared to have
examples. Um, be prepared to sort of
share facts, right? Like be succinct.
But I mean we I mean for years, right,
I've sort of known the Y Combinator
folks and some of their members and like
they've come in sort of since day one
that I've been in my office to tell
their stories. So, you know, I think
sort of not having a lobbyist on
retainer follow the lobbying disclosure
laws obviously, but um that shouldn't
preclude folks. And obviously, you know,
in the tech sector, there's a lot to
grapple with. So, um, the more expertise
we can get from folks, I think the
better. Yeah, absolutely. Uh, you know,
the the education of Congress on tech
issues is long-term. And also pushes for
laws are generational. So, talking to a
member now may pay off years later, even
if it doesn't feel like it in the
moment. Um, also important to remember
that the that Congress serves a function
for whistleblowers. So, we saw uh last
year how a bunch of AI whistleblowers
went and worked with Senator Grassley's
office to raise concerns. Um this is a
this great exception to an NDA. Um and
we know that many uh smaller tech
companies are afraid of reprisal by a
big tech company. Um and so being able
to have a kind of confidential
conversation with your member of
Congress is really helpful there. Um
also want to emphasize like our members
love hearing from inventors and
entrepreneurs. like you have this great
idea, you're achieving the American
dream, and if there's something that's
in your way, uh members of Congress want
to hear about that and hear what they
can do. And also, you know, we're
talking in a in the context of Federal
Trade Commission is is hobbled. We don't
have transparency there. There's
transparency functions that uh the
Federal Trade Commission can serve. You
can come talk to us about what you're
seeing in the market and, you know, we
may send off a letter to the Department
of Justice. may take a little bit of
time to respond, but if we send a letter
publicly about a company, that affects
people's actions right away. Um, you
know, we may not have passed a lot of
tech laws, but we've had a lot of focus
on tech, which still changes attitudes
and practices even if we don't have a
law. Yeah. I mean, I think, sorry to
just like keep going, but I mean, I
think since right, like many years ago
when we sort of first had like the
Facebook hearings where Mark Zuckerberg
sort of like awkwardly sat before
judiciary and commerce and people were
like, "What are we talking about?"
Right? like there's been a lot of sort
of movement forward with members and
like understanding of tech issues and
sort of like nuances you heard from
members who were here today. So, you
know, come tell us your stories and like
let's see what we can do. Yeah. One
important thing to remember is anecdotes
really do rule the day. Uh we can talk
to members all day long about facts and
they're going to remember that one story
that they heard from uh someone that
they just shook hands with once and
that's going to really move them day in
and day out. Yeah. I think a lot of
founders see like you know these big
like the Zuckerberg for example or these
bigam these big examples someone going
in front of testifying in front of
Congress and they think that that's how
you have to engage and I don't think a
lot of people realize kind of back to
what you said David it's a lot of like
smile and dial um like in sales I mean
just pick up the phone and start calling
these people so especially if they're
your actual representative it's someone
on their staff's job to actually you end
up in a database and they have to
ultimately reply u to what you're
talking about I've heard some horror
stories too of a lot of founders from
it's actually kind of the other side
like you mentioned sometimes it's a
negative signal to have a lobbyist.
Heard a couple horror stories of uh
later stage founders who show up their
company's already worth billions of
dollars and they just kind of show up on
a road show just to kind of sell their
book and they're not even really
prepared to have an ask. And so I think
a lot of uh a lot of early stage
companies might be really I think um
surprised to find out how well they're
received especially if they're doing
something and they're wellprepared and
earnest and just kind of show up. Yeah.
I mean, uh, members of Congress work on
behalf of everyone in their district,
even if that person is a founder or not.
Um, so talking to them is key. We need a
should have a a YC, Gary. We need like a
YC. Uh, I don't know, needs to be part
of like the first couple weeks or
something like that. How to hack
Washington? Um, back to Andrea. So, so
do founders often get in touch with the
EC and, you know, directly um, you know,
talking about non-compliance. I mean
talk about sort of fear of reprisal. Um
how do you guys is is there a lot of
inbound or do you guys kind of have to
is it a lot of sort of pulling
information out of people? Yeah. So I
mean developers and you know third
parties uh generally get in touch a lot
with us. Um we hear a lot from them and
we do want to hear from them because
ultimately they are the beneficiaries of
the DMA. So they are the ones uh that we
we work for effectively. Um so I have to
say that I would like to hear from them
even more. Um, and I can give an
example. I mean, so the the other day,
so we we adopted these specification
decisions, um, and they were on Hacker
News, uh, and on the same day, Eric
Mijikoski, who's the the founder of of
Pebble, um, published an article
complaining about the fact that Apple
does not give enough interoperability to
give a good experience with the future
Pebble smart watches. And so our
measures were addressing precisely the
kind of complaints that that Eric was
making. And you know it turns out that
his complaints got like three times the
up votes that our measures got on on
Hacker News. I mean and of course like I
mean no no no offense. Um but this shows
that I think uh it's also to us to kind
of you know publicize better our work um
in the sense that we want this we want
developers to tell us first of all what
they need third second whether there is
a problem in the compliance solutions
that gatekeepers uh put in place. So now
again the the DMA is already law so it
it is already in force but of course
there is a lot of discussion to be had
on implementation right how do we
implement the DMA in a way that actually
works and especially for obligations
that are very technical like
interpability data portability David was
was speaking before it is absolutely
crucial that these obligations are
implemented in a way that works for
developers for founders for builders
right otherwise we will not achieve you
what is the the the the desired outcome
of the DMA which is innovation and a
level playing field and I know Eric he's
our he was our badge partner in YC is a
great guy um you know it's interesting
I'm thinking about this in the same way
that you know uh companies I think some
of this real secret to success of YC and
broadly Silicon Valley is you end up
building these dense tr like high trust
networks of people who can who can share
information and and in some ways what
we're doing you know with what YC is
doing here and more broadly speaking I I
moved I moved to DC for love. I fell in
love with a girl who lives here and
works here. So that's why why I ended up
here and not not for my career. But it's
been interesting for the last year and a
half just seeing a lot more folks with
my background, technical,
entrepreneurial background, realizing
there's a huge opportunity to come to
town here and build the same dense trust
decentralized trust but trust networks
who understand sort of this tribal
knowledge that again as like a guy from
the Midwest who first was trying to get
into tech. I didn't know you know what a
safe note was or what any of this stuff
but you learn it through those you know
those those friendship networks and the
same thing I think these like startup
what's interesting for YC's opportunity
is to keep doing this kind of stuff in
DC and let everyone know like it's
probably a lower barrier to entry for
example you don't have to hire lobbyists
for a bajillion dollars um I mean I
would really like to see at some point
you know developers that can come to us
or even especially you know get in touch
with gatekeepers to make use of their
rights just as naturally as today they
file an issue on GitHub, right? Or like
they choose an open source license. I
mean, these are all things that
developers do today and we want to see
that kind of culture, compliance culture
to move also in terms of antitrust and
the DMA. Yeah, just a lot of people just
don't know this is this is an option.
Um, kind of jump ball to every No, Dave,
what's up? I just wanted to echo that
because I think you mentioned defending
your rights. It's such an important way
for founders and small businesses to
think about what the antitrust laws
provide to them, right? So it it's a
bill of economic rights. You have the
right to build a business and compete on
the merits and if you have a better
product, win, right? That's really
foundational. I think we've heard a
number of senators talk about that
today. And we don't really know how your
rights are being violated until you come
and tell us about that conduct that is
excluding you from a market. And then we
can kind of start that process. And I
think as uh Senator Holly talked about,
when you actually put the rights of
founders or entrepreneurs against the
sort of protection of the monopolist,
the rights are going to win. Totally.
It's also good to note that um you know,
we're talking here from kind of a point
of view of DC and Brussels, but we also
have the states here in the United
States and they're passing laws and
they're competing against each other to
ensure that their own laws are enforced
and to enact laws that better protect
their populace. Um, so sometimes getting
in touch with your state legislature or
your your AG, your attorney general back
home could be a faster way of having
process and we pay attention to state
laws what the AGs are bringing as well.
There's a great piece of work that the
Foundation for American Innovation
recent put out the state permitting
handbook um where Thomas Hawkman went
went through and there's there's you
know basically came up plan for sort of
hack local permitting and I think a lot
of companies just don't realize these
these uh resources are out there. So
with an with a minute and 24 seconds
left sort of jump ball um you know not
to beg the question too much but is the
sort of conversation absurd on its face
you know how how can small businesses
really compete um against these
companies that just have like billions
of dollars and and
um and you know effectively grow in in a
town that seems to only be run on money.
or we squeeze the juice on that question
because I think I guess I'll just say
you know you put it that way but it's
not just about money right Ideas uh the
better they are the easier they carry
right so no matter how large of a m
microphone bad ideas might have in some
of these debates good ideas will kind of
propagate and we're already seeing that
success I think in the last six or eight
years of antitrust enforcement a lot of
success from small and there's a benefit
to working together right why combinator
can be a voice because they're
representing the point of view of tons
of startups you know uh promot and
others also work together to say seeing
all from the same that we are seeing the
same anti-competitive abuses in the
market please do something um and so
that's really quite low cost just adding
your company's name to a group or um you
know joining in a call to action uh
doesn't require lobbyists required
full-time policy person but can have a
really outsized impact I also think we
need to regulate sort of regulate right
size I think that's what Senator Holly
was suggesting ing though I don't speak
for him because I don't work for him. Um
but you know I think that it doesn't
have to be you know like the free market
forever and you know that's it or like
fullon you know DMA for example right
like there are room there's room for
sort of like smart approaches in between
which is what my boss has been trying to
work with folks on commerce and
judiciary to do um and so you know it
doesn't mean it has to be all or nothing
right so in in the case I think of of of
the DMA um I mean again it's really
about making use of the rights that are
already established by law and also of
the implementation compliance
implementations that gatekeepers have
put in place. So I don't know how many
founders today know that actually under
the DMA they can submit an
interoperability request for Apple. So
Apple has an official platform an
official portal to actually submit these
interoperability requests. So if they
need anything they can do that under the
DMA and you know then we also have
visibility on that and then we can get
in touch right. So I mean these are very
concrete steps that they can take. Well,
with that guys, I think we're the only
thing in between you guys and the happy
hour. Maybe one more. So, let's we'll
we'll cut it off there. But thank you so
much for your time. Everyone, round of
applause, please. For my esteemed
panelists. Thank you guys.
All right, two more little things before
happy hour. Uh, so I'm very excited uh
to introduce our final founder.
Um, just pull up this here.
So David Gobod uh is the founder and
chief executive officer of uh Freedom
Tech. He is a tech entrepreneur and
lawyer based in New York City. He
co-founded Freedom Tech, a platform
advocating for individual freedom in the
AI age through technology. Uh his
professional background includes
founding Pasfolio, a financial services
company acquired by major bank and
Mobius Network, a blockchain platform
that raised 35 million in its 2018 ICO.
He holds a BS in computer science from
Stanford University and a JD from
Harvard Law School. His career also
features roles at Google and the US um
executive office of the president. Uh
please give a warm welcome to David.
[Applause]
[Music]
this
crap. Watch this. You got to drag it
over here. Watch this. We'll do it for
you. I think this will do it. Oh, there
you go.
All right. So, hi everyone. Uh so my
name is David Gobod as mentioned and
first I'd like to uh thank Y Combinator
and Luther for inviting me to uh speak
here today and I'm going to talk to you
about open-source AI and why it is
critical for uh securing freedom and
America's AI leadership. So uh first a
little about me. Um I'm a YC alum and
the founder of freedom which is both the
name of the company and I argue the only
thing that matters uh in the AI age. So
AI is already weaving its way into every
aspect of life and it has incredible
potential but it is important that we
don't lose our humanity and autonomy and
just end up plugged into the AI uh and
being passengers on the Wall-E conveyor
belt of life. And the other thing is
that it's very important that we don't
end up plugged into some closed source
AI that could be ran by big tech or an
authoran government because that will
shape the world and we'll have no way or
insight into how it works or what it's
doing. So first, what is open-source AI?
Well, it's AI for everyone because
anyone can download it and you can run
it on your own computer for just the
cost of compute. And you know what is
the model? Well, it's literally just
billions, tens today actually hundreds
of billions of numbers with instructions
on how to use it. And the good news is
because anyone can download it, you they
can learn and improve it. And what this
does is it levels the playing field.
Actually, at lunch, I actually met
another YC alum uh named Angela, the
founder of Andy Search, and she actually
told me her startup wouldn't exist
without open-source AI because of how
much cheaper it is compared to the big
tech AI providers. So it really prevents
uh prevention of AI monopoly pricing.
And more than that, you can download the
the big models, the open- source ones,
and you can create smaller models that
are more efficient and tuned and lower
cost to run for your specific use case.
So they're cheaper, and they provide a
better experience, a better product, and
you can even enhance them and move the
field uh forward faster. For example,
someone took Meta's llama model, which
was texton, and they added in image
support. And the openness allows anyone
to innovate, including university
professors and research labs, which
without open source wouldn't be able to
because they don't have the billions of
dollars to train these foundation
models.
And what open- source AI does, and
really what my startup Freedom is, doing
is it allows for not just open AI, but
decentralized AI, because we're about
open-source AI that runs locally. So,
everyone doesn't end up plugged into one
cloud AI that will be like the Matrix or
Skynet. If you think further where
technology is going, right, think about
brain computer interfaces.
I already use the AI lit like literally
every day. The the the use case I
actually even find it most useful for is
already just talking about like my knee
hurts, medical issues. I mean the
potential for AI is incredible, but I
think this is a real concern. You don't
want everyone to end up plugged into
some central closed source
AI. Uh and this gets to some of the
dangers of closed source AI. It's a
black box. you have no idea what it's
doing, how it's censored, how it's
biased. Uh we've even seen some, you
know, absurd examples, right? There was
the case of Google's AI. You asked it to
draw the founding fathers. It produced
Black George Washington. Earlier today,
one of the earlier presentations showed
Deepseek. You asked it about Tanaman
Square. It can't tell you about that. So
there's no control, no accountability,
and no transparency if that's what we
end up with. So supporting open-source
AI really supports freedom and it's
democratic tech leadership that America
has done before very successfully and
use that to export our tech to the rest
of the world. We've seen that with
internet and the G and GPS. And you know
today someone else mentioned earlier
DeepSseek it's actually currently the
best open- source model and it came from
China and it would really not be great
if that's the model that ends up running
most of the world's technology. You look
at Android today the open- source mobile
OS it runs 70% of devices. Linux the
open source OS basically runs the
internet. open-source
AI will be widely adopted. So, we need
to support it and have the best AI, the
best open- source AI if we want our
cultures and values and democratic
principles exported around the
world. Now, there are some uh
transparency and trust, I'd say research
questions that both impact open source
and closed source. These are things that
we're working on and interested at
freedom. One
is even if the AI is open source when
you use it, you can know sort of what
the answers generated, you're not
telling the AI to be censored or biased.
But the issue is you don't know how it
was trained yet. You don't know what
data it was trained on. It may have been
biased in training. So that's something
we're interested in. We also don't
really know why the AI directly comes up
with the answers it does and it's not
100% reliable and can have
errors. So the main call to action for
you to remember is to just support
open-source AI, protect it and fund it.
And by doing this, you're really
standing for
freedom. And once again, this is what
freedom is doing. We believe in
open-source and local AI. So you have
your own private AI that lets you unplug
from big tech cloud. It's open- source,
local first uh and end to end encrypted.
Uh so thank you and be free and support
open source AI.
[Applause]
Thank you David. So, this is uh the the
final thing before we we all head to the
bar. So, I'll try to be uh very brief
here. I just wanted to thank everybody
for an incredible day. When we first
imagined the summit, uh we weren't sure
we could pull it off, but you know, here
we are. Uh we organized this thing in
three weeks. Uh and last week I was at
Disney World. So, uh it's been it's been
quite uh a lot. But uh looking around at
the little tech founders and the top
investors and journalists and uh the
world's most p powerful regulators uh
all in one room, that's really special.
We're calling ourselves little tech and
that's a coin a term that was coined by
Gary Dan, our CEO. It describes startups
and midsize tech companies competing
against big tech. And it's more than a
label. It's a rallying cry. Too often in
Washington, tech means big tech. Not
today. We've shown that today tech is
much bigger. It's thousands of creative
teams innovating every day. Something
historic happened here. Major antitrust
enforcers from multiple jurisdictions
joined us. Andrew Ferguson, Gail Slater,
Terresa Rivera, uh, plus their
predecessors. It's the first time
they've appeared together since taking
office, highlighting how significant
this moment is. They recognize that a
dynamic ecosystem needs little tech.
We've also brought together
conversations with populist fire brands
and progressive regulators together to
demonstrate fair competition isn't left
or right. It's universal. Supporting
innovation unites even unlikely allies.
Now, a call to action. Let's change how
people talk about tech. Too often, broad
criticisms lump five person startups
with trillion dollar monopolies. Next
time somebody critiques tech, ask, "Are
you talking about big tech or a startup
in a garage?" Let's insist on clarity.
Let's inject a simple phrase into the
debate. We support little tech. When
critiquing big tech's behavior, say you
support little tech in the same breath,
and together we can shift the narrative.
So if anyone needs proof of what little
tech can do, look at today's demos. Safe
is banking underserved Spanish speakers.
Biobot turns wastewater into health
intelligence. Embu and CTgt push AI
forward responsibly. Coupe transforms
agriculture. Hot glue simplifies data
integration and version semiconductors
building critical competition to ASML
pushing semiconductor manufacturing
forward. Each founder began with an idea
and today they are changing the world.
So let's give our demo companies and
founders another round of applause
please.
I I I also want to uh this day would not
have been possible given that I was at
Disney World last week uh without the
team uh at uh really Walsh, Juliana
Glover, U Jennifer Felton, uh Cali
Hakuri, thank you're the behind the
scenes allstars, thank you very much the
A uh all the staff that helped set up
the food, everybody that helped set up
the chairs, please give them a round of
applause. Um and thank you Gary Tan, uh
the YC team, our speakers, panelist,
partners. It's not just about startups
or policy. It's about pluralism,
competition, optimism and tech.
Pluralism means diversity and voices in
voices. Competition means fair rights
where innovation thrives. Optimism means
believing technology built by many hands
can solve big problems and improve
lives. So let's carry today's energy
forward. Everyone can support little
tech. Next time a startup hits a
roadblock, let's help clear the path.
Little Tech may be little in name, but
its impact will be huge. Thank you all
for being part of this remarkable day
and let's build a tech landscape where
innovation flourishes and little tech
has a big voice. Thank you.