Video ID: ZVdgiuiOQ7E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVdgiuiOQ7E
Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 810
============================================================

[music]
>> Hi everyone. I'm super excited to have
Jeremy Allaire, the chairman, CEO, and
co-founder of Circle. Circle is a
stablecoin issuer and the issuer of
USDC, nearly $80 billion stablecoin.
He's a serial entrepreneur and he's also
someone that I've been excited to
collaborate with over the years.
The reason he's here is YC is insanely
excited about stablecoins and fintech
3.0. Stablecoins have grown from $0
about a decade ago to nearly $300
billion today. We see everyone from
shopkeepers in Argentina to big Wall
Street banks in New York using
stablecoins and we see builders from
developers in San Francisco to
policymakers on Capitol Hill paving the
way for stablecoins to be used. YC has a
request for startups out on stablecoins.
We're super excited to fund and support
stablecoin startups and we recently
announced that we're funding or offering
teams the ability to receive their
funding in USDC.
I'm really excited to have you here
today, Jeremy. Thank you. It's really
awesome to be here. I um first met you
actually in 2016. I don't think I've
shared this in 2016 at the MIT Bitcoin
conference.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah, I I I met a lot of
people there. Yeah, and it was a bunch
of nerds I think on a Saturday morning
in a winter in Cambridge.
>> Totally. Um but I think what's really
inspiring for me was just seeing your
founder journey. Mhm. Um from the early
ideas for Circle to where you ended up
>> Yeah. with stablecoins. And I'm just I I
think a lot of people don't know that
you're serial entrepreneur, have taken a
company public before, were the head of
product at Macromedia for a while. Just
really excited to hear a little bit
about the Circle um founding journey,
especially as it relates to other
founders, you know, who are starting
their own idea. Yeah, um very happy to
share that. I think um you know, a
couple a couple of things. I think the
first is like um I got very involved in
the uh early internet infrastructure
back in like 1990, so before the web,
um and um
you know, became very interested in in
sort of open networks, open software, uh
distributed computing models, kind of
the the early DNA of the internet got me
really excited cuz it was like a new
paradigm for how computing could work.
And I spent, you know, really a couple
of decades building internet
infrastructure software, um you know,
lots of different stuff, programming
languages, virtual machines, client
software, server software, and content
media, communications, a lot of the
stuff that was going on in this first
couple decades. Um always interested in
in in kind of how can we apply that kind
of DNA of the internet to solve broad
kind of problems in in society, right?
And um
that kind of, you know, led me to uh
my work in in crypto, um but, you know,
along the way, I had uh co-founded and
taken two companies public prior to
Circle. Um and um but in in in 2012,
became really enamored with crypto and
and and Bitcoin as as a technology um at
the time. Um
but was also interested in just from
kind of prior experience and interest in
um understanding how the global
financial system worked or didn't work
um after the great financial crisis. And
so, I had um
originally had a background in
international political economy, um that
was my academic background. And so, I
found after the great financial crisis,
I just became obsessed with what is the
nature of money, how does the
international monetary system work, what
is central banking, what is fractional
reserve banking, like what is all this?
And like what went wrong, and is there a
better way?
I didn't know anything about crypto cuz
there was no crypto at the time. I mean,
I guess there was Satoshi's, you know,
white paper and stuff, but I was not
aware of it um until later. And then,
you know, really crystallizing the
founding of Circle, like there's this
long-standing interest in sort of how
could the international monetary system
evolve with you know, what I saw with
Bitcoin, which was sort of the kernel of
a new technology infrastructure layer of
the internet, like a missing
infrastructure layer of the internet.
And I And as someone who'd worked on
infrastructure layers, it was very
apparent to me like this was this was a
computer science breakthrough and it was
um you know
at the time you know, people kind of
writing papers about smart contracts or
writing papers about extensibility of
blockchain networks and other things.
And I looked at that as a technologist
and said
wow this is going to allow for a a whole
new layer on the internet and it's going
to be a layer where we're going to be
able to build protocols for dollars on
the internet. We're going to be able to
build um basically self-running machines
running software that uh are are are
programming and intermediating economic
activity on top of those protocols for
dollars on the internet and sort of have
this big vision, 10-20 year vision of
like
you could actually rebuild not just the
financial system but the broader
economic system on the internet
natively. And that's what motivated the
the founding of Circle. And so the the
core idea of of what we'd think of today
of USDC was the founding idea. An HTTP
for money. How can you build a protocol
for dollars on the internet and and in
particular given the kind of grounding
in monetary philosophy
the belief was like this needs to be
full reserve money, not fractional
reserve money. It needs to be very, very
safe. Um and and that's like the right
base layer. And so the asset itself but
then the way it's expressed is more like
an internet protocol where anyone can
connect to it, anyone can build on it.
And so it that was not None of that was
possible in 2013. Uh and so you know, we
um
we we developed ways to express that
idea
on top of the Bitcoin network, which was
very problematic.
Um and then obviously when Ethereum came
out, um
you know,
it was like, "Okay, we have the building
blocks. We can actually execute this."
Um and you know, started work on that in
2017, and then obviously got together
with Coinbase in 2018, and got this, you
know, really off the ground as well. So,
but that was like
from a kind of vision of the company, a
little bit of the background coming in.
And I think like one thing I don't think
people realize today is how
controversial the idea was of dollars
versus Bitcoin as the
>> Yeah. Well, I got a lot of hate for a
very long time. Yeah. Cuz we were always
we we we we talked about like hybrid
models, right? Where we can connect the
regulated money system to these public
computing infrastructures, to these
public networks, and that
we can have both the technological
benefits and utility of this, and you
know, even permissionless access to use
it and develop on it. Um that was
controversial too. When I when I was
sort of out there saying like we're
going to do a state this USDC, and we're
going to do this thing that's on public
networks, everyone said, "No one will
let you do that. The governments are
going to shut it down, you know, because
it was pretty radical even even that."
But yeah, I mean, I was booed out of a
lot of rooms because I was not a Bitcoin
maxi. And I'm curious like uh for
builders, like what are the types of use
cases that you're seeing that have been
really compelling? Um you mentioned, you
know, people just using it day-to-day in
different parts of the world. I'm just
curious like yeah, what what are the
ones you're most excited about?
We are seeing so many um builders
working on uh what I'll broadly call
neo-banking type of products, right? And
but what's interesting is, you know,
there was a a period where everyone was
like, "I'm going to build the the
consumer wallet with like a stablecoin
native, with like a Visa card, and you
know, kind of that bundle." And that And
by the way, that continues to
proliferate. Like there's tons of those
in lots of countries, lots of places.
But now we're starting to see more and
more builders who are saying, "Actually,
like I want to build this for
businesses. Like this is really valuable
for businesses and organizations." So,
it's essentially like, you know,
abstracting away the features that are
needed for treasury management and for
kind of
payment flows more broadly. Um so, we're
seeing a lot of that. Um And that's also
from big companies, too. Like, you know,
Stripe or Ramp or uh you know, uh lots
of others. Um There's been a big crop of
of companies, some of whom have matured
and been bought and sold uh that have
that have sort of said, "Hey, this is
like the ideal uh kind of settlement
infrastructure for cross-border
settlements." So, but that that
continues unabated. Like we we continue
to see so many companies and so many
regions and markets sort of building
solutions um you know, around that. Um
And uh
you know, uh it's it's also um
interesting to see
uh more and more um
uh more and more platforms that are
involved in capital formation using
stablecoins and wiring stablecoins in.
Like, Y Combinator uh it's a
[clears throat] great example. Uh And
then recently, I mean, we started work
last year on Agentech uh you know, uh
payments with USDC. We we were an early
contributor to X402 as well. And um
Yeah, I think have always thought that
kind of machine-intermediated would be
the future. That's gone into overdrive
now. Um and so, uh really just in the
last 3 4 months, it's just been like
whoosh. Um and that's incredibly
exciting. And so,
tons of projects now that are using, you
know, our infrastructure uh alongside uh
various types of products and services
for agents. Um and that's to me, that's
one the most exciting things happening
in the world, obviously. Um, so that's a
that's a major new area uh for for
builders. So, from a startup
perspective, those are some of the
themes. Um,
and, you know, I actually think and it'd
be interesting, you know, to kind of see
what comes out of these cohorts uh here
is
kind of programmability of money
um is a new concept for a lot of people
and abstracting away um you know, kind
of higher order kind of protocols or
services
um that take advantage of that. You
know, for example, like we've seen
startups that are basically working on
rewards protocols that go alongside
stable coins because you want to be able
to have mechanisms for businesses that
accept payments with stable coins to
actually also have kind of fungible,
redeemable, but also bespoke forms of of
loyalty systems um that is a a
replacement for like card loyalty
systems. So, that's something that you
can only really do when with that
programmable surface.
>> Yeah. And so, I think like both Deal and
Gusto have announced stablecoin payouts.
I think payouts is probably one of the
biggest use cases we're seeing.
>> I I I view that mostly as like a
cross-border example. Um, but it it's
it's not just cross-border cuz it works,
you know, for people uh I could be an
American business paying out someone in
American, you know, end user in America
as well, but
>> Yeah. Do you feel like this first phase
is more consumer is going to be consumer
driven or is it more like I I think we
we heard this term like stablecoin
sandwich where basically it's
stablecoins behind the scenes, but on
both sides it's fiat. Is there for the
next year or two, are you seeing more of
one or both or are they both really
exploding? I mean, I think both are
really growing. Um, and and that
reflects a couple facts. I think one is
especially in emerging and developing
markets, the businesses um that want to
use this, in many cases, they do want to
hold working capital in these digital
dollars. Uh, and so they don't
necessarily want to go to their local
currency. And so they may they they need
the ability to go to their local
currency because they may have payment
obligations in their local currency.
But, um,
the sort of store value component of it
is is very real. I think that's the case
for individuals as well. Um, but, you
know, we've seen with CPN, Circle
Payments Network, you know, that's
almost all business-to-business
and it's almost it's all international
and it's it's amazing. Um, and we've
just seen like rapid growth and the
number of you know, basically created a
network model. We have
as of last quarter, we we had like 55
financial institutions on the network.
We have, you know, a lot more coming on.
And they're kind of wiring it up and
they're able to go from fiat to stable
coin to to uh, to fiat or stable coin,
right? They can kind of go across uh,
these options. And but it's like SMEs
around the world. Um, and it's
south-to-south, it's north-to-south,
it's like all all these um, these these
different models. And
you know, businesses are just figuring
out that this is a, you know, kind of
better, faster, cheaper way to do
things. Yeah. Um,
that's on the on the on the on the
business side. And and then, um, yeah, I
think on the
you know, on the on the end user side,
um,
very clearly like what I I sort of say
households, but people are are realizing
like I can I can hold dollars, I can
hold digital dollars, I can get passive
yield on them, I can uh, I can transact
with them, and I have interoperability
to like a local payment method as well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I think one thing that's
really seems really different, you know,
from years in stable coins has been uh,
for the last I think for a lot of the
early stable coin journey was a mass
movement. A lot of consumers were using
it around the world. And what's really
changed maybe in the last year,
especially in the US, has been
institutional embrace
>> Yeah. of stable coins. I'm curious in
terms of like banks, fintechs, financial
institutions, um beyond payouts, are
there other sets of use cases that
you're Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean,
look,
we um as as you know, like we we've
spent years trying to get
regulatory classifications
so that, you know, something like USDC
is treated as like cash equivalent money
in the US financial system. We're now
there. Like it's happening, right? So,
what's important about that is that once
you get that federal treatment and once
you get the SEC, the CFTC, and the bank
regulators to sort of say, "This is, you
know, from a federal statutory level,
this is what this is, and therefore from
a prudential kind of risk perspective,
this is how we'll treat this and you how
you can use this." That's enabling all
these participants in capital markets
uh and in banking to actually say,
"Okay, we we can now start to use this
as an infrastructure." And so, they'll
look at it as an infrastructure that is
about speed and efficiency
uh and and and interoperability and
things like that. But it's it's very
powerful. So, we're now seeing, for
example, like the CFTC,
uh which oversees, you know, all of the
kind of derivatives markets um in in the
United States, um that they're
authorizing market participants, the the
derivatives exchanges and then the the
the market participants that sit on
those to actually use USDC as eligible
collateral, uh which is pretty powerful.
Um Now, what's interesting, ironically,
is that like USDC's eligible collateral
on Coinbase or or
or wherever for for different things in
like in the crypto world it's like of
course cuz that's the only thing that's
available. Um but but like doing that
for like oil futures on on a on a
classic derivatives exchange is really
powerful. And so um that's an
interesting example. We're seeing global
systemically important banks who are
using this as a way to actually do
internal global treasury management,
their own capital movement, doing their
own internal capital movement across
their international divisions or
branches using USDC, which is wild.
That's like plumbing of, you know,
capital movement in the
in a global bank. Um we're seeing um
obviously more and more um kind of uh
traditional asset managers that are
creating um digital asset products,
tokenization products, where, you know,
essentially USDC is the is the cash
layer for how you create and redeem all
these different types of products. So,
that's a that's a thing that's
happening. Um we're seeing um
you know, uh global systemically
important banks who are basically
realizing that they can do intraday
uh FX
uh across, you know, major currencies
and major boundaries using stablecoins
in a way that they can't with the
existing currency system and currency
settlement system. And so, risk moves
continuously, right? So,
>> Yeah. uh so, the ability to kind of
collapse the time between, you know, uh
what's happening in a market and and
ultimate settlement is
>> Yeah, like the T+3 to instant yesterday.
>> or even next day. Like we can we can do
continuous uh kind of stuff. And so,
like those are like, you know, you know,
for for for some people they're like, "I
don't know what the that is."
Right? But like, you know, if you
actually look at it, it's like this is
like
really really critical pieces for how
capital moves, how risk is managed, how
markets are established. And these are
all beginning to happen, but with the
regulatory clarity, like there's a
potential for this to like deeply
penetrate all these things. And that's,
you know, that's why, you know, I think
when people think about what's the TAM
for stablecoins, right? There's the
There's the money supply TAM, which is I
think trillions of dollars, many
trillions of dollars.
>> Yeah. But then there's all of the
utilities that use that money. All of
these are big use cases that are, you
know, turning over and using this. And
those obviously are in scope as well.
>> Yeah. Uh yeah. So, you alluded to like
just the regulations and how much of a
sea of change that is in the US and just
how we've seen, you know, all these
institutions that were sitting out Yeah.
>> coming back in coming in. Yeah. I'm
curious like how you see that
internationally because at YC we have
like companies in Latin America and in
Asia and the Middle East that are all
excited to build on stablecoins. I'm
just curious, do you see other countries
as advanced Yeah.
>> maybe as we've come in the last few
years in the US and Yeah. what do you
think needs to happen? So, it's it's
really interesting. I mean, like most
people don't realize, but
about 5 years ago the G20
through through the the financial
regulatory body, the Financial Stability
Board, sort of said, "Hey, we need
policies on stablecoins because they're
going to happen." And so, they came up
with a set of recommendations, and the
G20 adopted it. So, all the presidents
and whatever like signed said, "We're
going to adopt this." Yeah. And what
that basically said is like here's a set
of of policies that we think G20 members
should adopt. And then it goes down to
the actual like parliaments and
governments and congresses and however
policies made.
And And so, governments started doing
it. G20 members started doing it. Japan
was the very first. Japan had stablecoin
regulations years ago. Then Europe was
next. Europe passed the stablecoin
regulations. And then you had like
Singapore, Hong Hong
UK, uh UAE, like all basically drafting,
doing development on this. And uh and
then finally the US. So, the US was
actually late to this. Um but you you
may remember like the there was
essentially the the heads of all the
kind of financial
uh uh
apparatus in the US, the Presidential
Working Group on Financial Markets,
basically said, "Here's our
recommendations for stable coins." That
was in 2021. That was 5 years ago. And
it it took almost 5 years to get a
federal law uh passed uh that that did
this. But it just it takes years to make
laws, right? So, we got to that point
here in the United States.
So, in some parts of the world, they had
already put a a kind of like, you know,
pole in the ground saying this is what
this is. And then we now have the US
come in, but because dollars dominate
this, it's kind of forcing the rest of
the world to basically revisit all of
that. And so, um
what we're seeing happen now is not just
G20 countries, but huge numbers of other
countries
uh in in emerging and developing markets
all around the world are now working on
rules on stable coins. So, I think one
thing to note is that um
there's like gray area. So, in many
places it's gray area. It's not like
it's not defined, it's not clearly
regulated. It might be might be
regulated as like these are basically
like other digital assets and you know,
you need to be you need to have VASPs uh
you know, or these you know,
intermediaries that kind of deal with
this and have money laundering
obligations and the like. Um but in
>> [clears throat]
>> in in other cases they're saying, "No,
we need to actually have laws
for what are permitted, what like in
Brazil, like what's a permitted stable
coin in Brazil? What's a permitted
international stable coin? Are they
going to Are they going to define that
on the basis of the Genius Act and say
like things that are defined here?"
There's a strong incentive because of
Genius to do that because genius has a
reciprocity
provision in it. And so if a regime
basically adopts a framework that is
substantially similar to genius, then
currencies issued under that regime
could be recognized in the US as well.
Got it. And so really the next I would
say the next two to three years, you're
going to see um like a huge number of of
laws passed around the world on stable
coins in local markets. And you're going
to see efforts from the top coordinated
G20 type stuff uh as well as kind of key
individual markets to kind of create
uniformity might be too strong of a
word, but basically create various forms
of interoperability, reciprocity, etc.
So that this can kind of work
um
in a fairly consistent way. So there's
big moves happening internationally
right now.
>> Okay. Yeah. Are there particular
countries you're super bullish on at
least in the next year?
Yeah, I mean I I I I mean there are um
we um uh you know the the the places
where we've seen
kind of concentration have been things
like, you know, uh
Southeast Asia, uh including Hong Kong,
um
huge amounts of activity there. Latin
America, huge amounts of activity. Like
the number of startups that we see that
are in, you know, Latin American
countries that are building new products
uh
around this, I mean it's got to be in
the hundreds. We spent a lot of time, I
think, so far talking about largely the
existing financial systems and how
stable coins can make that better.
Uh we're in San Francisco and there was
just tremendous, tremendous excitement
about AI. And you mentioned Jenny
Commerce earlier. I'm just curious about
the types of use cases that you're
seeing in these early years. And is it
micro payments that you see as the
initial killer use case for stable
coins? Are are other things that you're
seeing that you think would be
interesting for builders to be able to
help support and build? Yeah. So, I'm
super excited about it.
And and I think
I think our view is or my view I should
say is a couple of things. I think one
is you know we're we're in a period of
very significant obviously like
technical and economic disruption. And
um
my own view is that
you know we're going to see um a a huge
explosion in the number of uh you know
AI agents that are both conducting work
and consuming the work of other AI
agents. And so an agentic economic
system is is needed.
We think kind of new economic OS's,
blockchains, etc. are needed to support
that. And the the requirements are
really different. But from a use case
perspective, a lot of people when they
hear agentic commerce think like my
agent is going to shop for me. Yeah.
Okay. That's like a looking backward
view. My view is that basically like
labor and cap the relationship of labor
and capital are changing
radically. And we now have you know work
conducted by these intelligent agents
and decomposition of work
into agents and agents as a service. And
so
more and more discrete things are going
to be consumable as intelligence and and
work uh at at an agent level. And in in
that environment, right, you're you're
effectively going to need to have um
uh
contracts and economic execution amongst
these you know
you know potentially billions or even
tens of billions of agents that are
conducting work. That to me is what
agentic I don't I don't like to use the
word commerce. I I to say like agentic
economic activity [laughter] cuz it's
broader. It also reflects the fact that
um
in such systems
um part of this is going to be
um empowering agents to uh coordinate
work, to have proof of work, to have
ways to um to kind of store and manage
capital, to make decisions together, to
provide governance,
to have human in the loop governance.
Like all this stuff
is what the agentic economic system
needs to look like. And so to me, it's
not just about payments, it's not just
about money movement, it's about the
substance of how economic activity is
organized. That's a huge opportunity. Um
but my my high-level view in stepping
back is even if you just look at this
from a payments perspective,
like the the velocity of economic
activity because of AI agents is going
to explode. And um and so that economic
activity is going to be uh a huge
increase in the velocity of money and
the use of money. And the only viable
way to manage that is with stable coins
and and blockchains. And so um you know,
we're we're designing a ton of stuff at
an infrastructure level to like be ready
for that, enable that, etc. Um
and it's you know, um yeah, so that's
like big picture. Okay, and last
question on that one um
is that what infrastructure components
do you think are missing? Like
identities, I think one example, maybe
like chargebacks and things like that
might be other examples. But I'm curious
especially for the builders out there,
like what are those pieces do you think
that really like we have to like lead to
really unlock that economy? Yeah, I mean
look, I I think um cl- clearly like know
your agent uh {slash} identity proofs is
is really critical. Um I think um
uh yes, I I think um
mechanisms for disputes and and kind of
uh failed transactions, other things
like that are very important. Yeah. Um
and there's some really interesting
things that could be done there uh in
terms of uh you know um
kind of dispute resolution conducted by
AI agents themselves, etc. So, that's
like a really interesting space. What
that actually also calls for are what
what I believe will be needed are um
insurance markets.
Uh so, insurance markets um are going to
be critical and so you're going to want
to have insurance against all kinds of
stuff that's happening in the agentic
economy, not just you know a payment
settled or not or there was fraud,
right? But but insurance against a
number of different types of outcomes.
And so, I think insurance markets are
are are are are ripe uh
and tied to uh agentic economic activity
as well. Last question, there're three
things you're excited about for the next
year that will really, you know,
transform the stablecoin industry. What
what are those? One is one that we've
been talking about, which is just
agentic, right? So, I'm I'm very very
excited about that. And And part of it
is like the unknown. Like we know this
is going to be significant and the
unknown of everything that's going to
happen cuz it moves so fast. So, so that
that's totally something that that that
I'm really excited about.
Um you know, I'm I'm excited. I think
we're going to see um
product user experiences
that that really make this beautiful and
simple and seamless.
>> Yeah. And
>> doesn't feel like a crypto app.
>> Yeah, like I I I think we're going to
have we're going to have like the the
the breakthrough UX experiences
um that that happen. And we're going to
see a ton of those, but we're going to
see some that get lift off, right? That
that that really start to get like PMF
and and and growth and the like. So,
that's really exciting. Um and um and
And I know this is more mundane, but I
think it's really exciting is like we're
going to see stablecoins um become
essentially like approved and usable in
the core guts of the financial system.
And like that is kind of like you know,
reaching the summit in terms of like,
okay, we've made it. Like this is now
this is now considered like money in the
most important infrastructure in the
world. And so I think that's um
that's pretty amazing, too. Cool. Well,
Jeremy, it's been so exciting being on
the journey with you. I think we first
met when USDC was maybe less than 100
million in market cap.
>> Yes. Really excited to see what's ahead
for USDC and the entire stablecoin
industry. Thank you so much. It's been
great.
>> [music]
[music]