Title: DoorDash CEO: Customer Obsession, Surviving Startup Death & Creating A New Market
Video ID: 3N3TnaViyjk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3N3TnaViyjk
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-03-26T14:00:04Z
Duration: PT31M33S
Views: 202462
Likes: 4687
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 803

Description:
In this episode of How To Build The Future, Garry sits down with Tony Xu, Co-founder and CEO of DoorDash, to discuss their origin story, how the company survived several near death experiences, and what it takes to transform an entire industry.

Apply for a YC Summer Fellows Grant: https://events.ycombinator.com/summer-fellows
Apply to Y Combinator: https://ycombinator.com/apply

Chapters (Powered by https://bit.ly/chapterme-yc) - 
00:00 - Intro
02:45 - How they landed on the idea of DoorDash
05

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

There's no better way to be the expert
than just to do the work. You might be
surprised at how quickly you get to
become the expert. We're here to build a
company that will grow and empower every
physical business and grow the GDP of
every city if we are successful in doing
so. That's not going to happen in 1
year, 2 years, 5 years, 10 years. That
hopefully can be a forever or an eternal
mission. There are moments whether it's
the start of the company or a crisis
situation like co 19 where it becomes
very clear why you're doing what you're
doing or should be very clear to you why
you're doing what you're doing and when
you have that kind of clarity it makes
it a lot easier to make those
[Music]
decisions. Welcome back to another
episode of how to build the future.
Today's guest, Tony Shu, who created
Door Dash, which now has
mid60% of all food delivery in the
United States. Tony, welcome. Thank you.
You actually mentioned you had, you
know, two or three other ideas, you
know, how did you arrive on this
particular one and what disqualified the
other ones? There were two important
things. One was that uh if we decided
that we enjoyed working together, we're
going to keep going. And two um was
whether or not we actually liked the
idea of the project enough to to keep
going and and we we called it a project
I think for the entire first year of the
company's life even after legally
incorporating. So, one of the projects,
for example, that we worked on that met
one of the criteria but didn't meet the
other was a tablet app that would sit at
the counter, so at at the point of sale
register, and would ask customers while
they were paying for whatever items they
were purchasing um where they had heard
about this retailer or this restaurant.
And it was just a very simple um you
know survey and reporting app that
basically uh helped uh merchants figure
out the effectiveness of their marketing
spend. We loved working together. We
didn't love working on that particular
project and that uh turned out to be
something that we we canled when it came
to Door Dash. Um, the initial
idea really came when we visited a
macaroon store owner. Our question that
we tended to ask business owners was,
can we follow you um around for a day?
So, we'll go and pack boxes with you, do
your accounting with you, make salads
with you, and what undercover? Well, we
wanted to actually feel what it was like
their lived experience versus just
asking a bunch of survey questions.
Sometimes it's very very hard for any
customer to tell you exactly what is
inside their brain when you ask them
what problems they have. And so we
wanted to feel and and and and maybe
trying to figure it out ourselves. And
it was toward the end of the time we
spent with the store manager that she
had showed us a booklet of orders she
had turned down. All of them were
delivery orders. That was the comment
and thread. And it just made no sense to
us. We said, "You're a oneperson shop.
this is a big deal. This is a thick
booklet of orders that um probably is
very meaningful to you. We don't
understand why you're not pursuing it.
And so we really just unraveled that
thread. As we kept, you know, studying
this problem, we just found more and
more interesting threads of where it
would go. Um, yes, certainly we could
have done delivery just for this
macaroon store owner, but then you can
imagine you could do it for all
bakeries, all types of restaurants, all
types of retailers. And we started, you
know, hearing the need um from so many
different merchants that we we knew
there was something there. What we
didn't know was whether or not consumers
cared and whether or not there could be
a driver workforce that we could partner
with. And so those turned out to be the
key things we worked on at YC. And you
also met your co-founders um uh
partially through Stanford, was it?
Yeah, the GSP was was an interesting,
you know, time for me. I mean, I um it
it I I I applied on the recommendation
of uh one of my mentors at um at eBay at
the time who was the CEO, John Dano at
the time. And um he thought that it
would be great for my personal
development. So that was really that was
kind of the thesis. Um and and so I
didn't go into Stanford, in other words,
trying to think about starting a company
or or even looking for co-founders. That
was very fertuitous. Um meeting Andy
Stanley and Evan. Um Evan turned out to
be a a roommate and and and that was
just purely from a social circumstance.
Andy and Stanley were roommates at the
undergrad. We happened to meet. We
worked on different projects together.
It wasn't intended to necessarily over
time become a company or anything like
this, but that's really how we got
started. At what point did you decide to
apply to YC? While we were in school. So
we we we actually the first two weeks of
the summer batch of 2013 uh were the
last couple weeks of our time at
Stanford. So we had a few weeks of
overlap or a couple weeks of overlap. I
remember very specifically my classmates
or some of our classmates, you know,
planning their exotic vacations to
Europe or other um interesting areas for
for the summer. And when they asked me
what I would be doing, I said I'd be
delivering hummus for my Honda. It was a
very different type of uh answer. But
yeah, you know, we had a lot of fun. I
mean, the the the the earliest days all
four of us did all the deliveries. It
was called Palo Alto Delivery
previously. Yeah. Yeah. A super scalable
name, but a name we were able to get for
less than $10. Yeah. We shipped um
powtodely.com under an hour. I don't
remember exactly but maybe 4550 minutes
because all it was was a static uh HTML
page with eight PDF menus and these were
menus of restaurants in Powalto that we
frequented often as students. It had a
Google voice number you can call. That's
how you would place the orders. There
were no other way in which you can
order. Once you call that number, it
would ring the cell phones of all four
of our our all four of the founders um
cell phones and whoever picked up first
would be the one to take care of that
order. Amazing. What was it like to
interview at YC get in and then I know
Paul Bukite did a lot of work with you
actually
creat was was our um group partner and I
think he took a personal affinity to us
because he really wanted us to exist
where he lived. Yeah. and we we hadn't
yet we only operated in Palo Alto at the
time um not yet where where he lived
which was a neighboring city. YC was
intense. You know, for us, the reason
why we did YC was we really wanted to
keep going on this project. And to us,
YC was a bit of an accountability
mechanism. One of the biggest things we
learned, you know, from all of the
different partners at YC was really just
what's important, you know, in the
earliest days versus what's not
important. The ethos in in YC was
fantastic, I think, for for certainly a
group that um wanted a structured place
to find uh guidance on whether or not,
you know, we were on to something. Two
things you had to figure out, supply and
uh actually consumer demand. Yeah. So
driver supply and consumer demand. What
was that like you know sort of over the
10 12 weeks? Yeah. So the number one
thing we were we were very scared about
was whether or not consumers would want
this product. And it's because delivery
is not a new idea. It's been around
since horses. It's been around forever.
And and so um and obviously the US is a
very highly capitalistic market. So if
something doesn't exist, maybe there's a
good reason why it doesn't. And so we
wanted to make sure um from the get-go
whether or not consumers would pay us
for the service. So that was one big
question. The other was whether or not
we knew that restaurants had a need for
it. We didn't know if they would pay us.
Um that was the second you know pillar
and then the third was whether or not uh
there would exist drivers who would
actually want access to this. And so
early on uh we did all the deliveries.
One of the best parts of doing all the
deliveries besides teaching us what are
all of the steps within a delivery is
what customers wanted and our earliest
customers tended to be uh families with
young children. it tended to be the mom
who um ma made a majority of the
decisions when it came to to meal prep
and food. And so they told us what they
wanted. They told us what was important.
They told us what restaurants we that
they preferred. Um and but the most
important thing was that they kept
coming back in again without our
throwing advertising at them, coupons or
discounts at them. um that kind of gave
us the check mark, if you will, on
growing organically. Um on the consumer
front with
drivers, because we did every single
delivery, um it was very easy to speak
knowledgeably um uh about uh what it
would be. So, we would just post ads on
Craigslist, see who shows up, and then
started filtering different segments of
drivers. That was one where we weren't
necessarily sure whether or not there
would ever exist a large enough um
workforce interested in in in this type
of work. One of the questions we had
asked ourselves was would drivers only
be interested in working for a platform
that pays the most? Because obviously
it's going to be more valuable to
transport Gary than to transport a
burrito. And so one of the earliest
tests we ran was we recruited two groups
of drivers. Um, roughly speaking, 20
drivers who drove for Uber X at the time
and 20 who uh delivered for Door Dash.
The control, if you will, variable was
that they both earned $20, uh, an hour
each group. I made them an offer to uh,
work for $25 an hour um, guaranteed if
they were to switch jobs. if the Door
Dash drivers would go over to Uber X and
Uber X drivers would come over to Door
Dash. Exactly one driver out of two
groups of 20, so one out of 40 said yes.
Now, this wasn't a very scientific
study, but clearly we were missing
something or I was missing something and
it was actually staring me right in the
face, which was these were very
different groups of people. They self-
selected completely differently. And um
you know on the Door Dash side um we
tended to skew younger, we tended to
skew more female. And so today Door Dash
has over 7 million drivers in on the
platform. Of these dashers, this the
drivers on the platform almost 60% are
women. Today they literally come from
every part of the economy. Um hundreds
of industries represented back then. Uh
they tended to skew younger. they tended
to skew um from segments like retail or
um universities and the like um or
service jobs um and and and they didn't
always deliver in a car. You know,
sometimes they preferred uh working on
their scooter or working on their
bicycle or working on their mo from
their motorcycle. Very very different um
from the ride sharing or the ride
hailing segment. I think that was one of
the key experiments I remember running
in YC that gave us enough confidence. We
didn't certainly know, you know, how
large the the the Dasher pool might be,
but gave us enough confidence that we
had positive answers that consumers
would pay for this product, merchants,
the restaurants would pay for this
product because I sold them doortodoor
and after running this experiment that
there would be enough of a driver pool
to partner with. And then what was that
demo day experience like? Well, we felt
great internally as a team where we
answered our own questions that those
three questions because you know to us
the most important thing was that was
this project worth continuing forgetting
about you know you know the circumstance
of demo day or or how awesome of an
opportunity it was to get in front of
investors? Can we prove to ourselves
that this is worth continuing? The
answer was yes. Demo day however was not
successful. I don't know exactly where
we stacked ranked that day, but we
certainly weren't amongst the favorites.
Um, and and it was really tough. I mean,
the company almost went out of business
because uh, you know, we didn't we
didn't raise raise a lot of money from Y
Cominator uh, with the initial grant and
so we were looking for seed financing
and we were we were a couple weeks away
from going to zero. I think at the time
people um, just weren't sure if this
would be a business. Yes, we had great
um metrics. Yes, we had positive
evidence, you know, to each side of our
marketplace in terms of uh thinking
about whether or not they would
participate. Um but it was 10 weeks of
data. And so at the end of the day, if
you were an investor looking at Door
Dash on demo day or anywhere near demo
day, it would be a conviction bet. Be a
conviction bet on the team on that there
would be a potential market. You know, I
think one of the things people missed
early on was that Door Dash was really
in the business of creating a market.
There were there were 20,000 maybe
restaurants offering delivery at the
time and that's who incumbents would
work with, you know, the GrubHubs or the
Seamlesses. They would partner with
these restaurants that had their own
delivery fleet and they would, you know,
just send them an order and the
restaurants would complete the
deliveries themselves. But the question
we always asked was, if you could build
a last mile logistics network for every
retailer, well, could you open up
everybody else? There's about rough
math, a million restaurants um in the
US. Only 20,000 of them offer delivery.
What would happen if you can enable the
other 980,000 to do it? So, Door Dash
actually almost died, I guess, after a
Stanford football game in the fall of uh
2013. We did. Can you tell that story?
Yeah. So, it was the first Saturday home
game for Stanford football and it was at
an awkward time where after the ending
of the game, everybody in PaloAlto
decided to order Door Dash for
restaurant delivery. Normally a good
thing. Normally a great thing. You know,
no one usually complains of too much
demand except when you have no ability
to fulfill the demand or to shut off,
you know, the website that kept
receiving these orders when you didn't
have enough drivers on the road. So,
that became the complication. What ended
up happening was every delivery was at
least an hour late, probably more like
an hour and a half. It was terrible. And
we also at the time or I at the time
could not raise any seed financing. So
you got the cash going to zero. You have
hundreds of customers very upset because
they either received cold food or
received very very late deliveries. I
remember that night, maybe 9 or 10 p.m.,
my co-founders and I looking at what the
refund cost would be because we thought
the right thing to do would be to refund
everybody, but that would take away
about 40% of the bank account, which was
already quite low. We took maybe 10
seconds to make the decision to refund
everybody. We ended up staying up that
night and then baked cookies so that we
could deliver them at around 5:00 a.m.
before everybody had woken up. Oh my
god. That was an early story that
ultimately, you know, became the story
that translated to our internal company
value of customer obsessed, not
competitor focused. And this is
partially survival bias, but um I think
the the the founding team always had
this desire to at least do things the
right way even if we wouldn't have made
it. Well, so what happened like the in
the following weeks like you know how
did you get yourself out of this sort of
situation where the bank account is
dwindling yet I mean seemingly business
is booming in some sense. Business is
doing actually really remarkable. We've
had a few occasions like this in the
history of Door Dash where business is
actually going really well organically
on its own without the aid of marketing
spend or discounts. Um yet I can't raise
a dime. And so I don't know what that
says about my fundraising ability, but
you know, l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
l l l l l luckily all you need is one
investor to say yes and that's what
happened. So a couple weeks after the
Stanford incident uh in September we
raised our seed financing. You were not
the only player. there were others
especially in urban areas there started
to be a price war you know talk to me
about how you approached that like
because you took a very sort of
contrarian view of it and uh ended up
mainly focusing on suburbs instead of
fighting it out in sort of battleground
cities. One of the things that we
noticed at the time was, you're right,
it was a crowded space. Lots of people
more successful at raising capital than
we were. Um, they all went
into perhaps the expected geographies,
the San Francisco, the New Yorks, the um
areas where people thought you needed
order density in order to make the
economics work. So, it was all hail, you
know, city centers that had high
population density.
But because we had done all the
deliveries ourselves and we actually
kept that going for about 2 years um
straight after and even to this day um
every person at Door Dash, myself
included, does deliveries every year. We
kept hearing over and again that the
need was very very strong outside of
these city centers. It makes sense when
you actually take a step back to think
about it from the customer's
perspective. If you and I lived in New
York City or and we walked outside of
the elevator of the building, we
probably could walk into hundreds of
restaurants in a place outside in New
York City, Long Island for example, or
you know, when we launched here in Palo
Alto, you would be walking for miles
probably before you would see the first
restaurant. And so from the customer's
perspective, not from, you know, a unit
economics perspective or anything like
that, um it was quite obvious that um
the need was higher in these places
outside of city centers. And I think
that always became, you know, a a a um a
general mantra we had whenever we were
in question of what to build. Listen to
the customer, run the test. And that was
certainly one of the things, you know,
early on that we made a very large bet
on that if this industry were to be
created, it would actually be created
outside of the city centers. If you
looked back over the last 10 or 12 years
in this industry, um, you know, the
majority of the growth came from these
places outside of city centers.
Obviously, we didn't have the data to
prove it at the time, but what we did
have, uh, was the conviction in doing
these deliveries ourselves that there
was a chance that could be true. So I
mean that's fascinating. I you know from
the outside it always felt like oh well
logically speaking like somehow maybe
gross margin would be higher or you know
CAC would be lower in the suburban areas
and somehow like from the spreadsheet
view some sort of like quantbased
analysis would cause you to you know
sort of choose suburbs. But what I'm
hearing is actually certainly that might
have been true but like being super
customer obsessed was like the number
one reason. Well, it was the number one
reason of how it happened. But actually,
if you got into the PNL where I think
the details would surprise you, where in
the um places outside of city centers,
the suburbs, you tended to have um a
greater percentage of families, which
have more mouths to feed. As a result,
you tended to have higher baskets.
Higher baskets meant larger revenues.
You also tended to have easier ways to
find parking. you tended to have a
greater percentage of single family
homes which made it easier to you know
deliver whereas you can imagine you
contrast that by going into a high-rise
building in downtown Manhattan or
something like this and that would be a
much more complicated delivery when we
studied it you know line by line by line
actually the unit economics were much
stronger outside of the city centers and
that wasn't the first instinct you know
the first instinct was just listening to
what the customers had told us um where
the need does, but it was very easy to
prove out very very quickly, you know,
thereafter every line on the line item
on on the unit economic spreadsheet of
how it could be even better if we did a
good job. You just continued to grow.
You kept you raised, you know, multiple
rounds of funding. Your series C was
actually a down round. What was that
like? You know, you're growing the
business, raising more money, you know,
you're fighting off competitors, you
know, how did you manage that and what
was that experience like? It was very
tough. I mean because on the one hand
you see all of the internal metrics
going in the right direction. You're
growing organically. You're growing
quite quickly organically. You see that
the market is perhaps larger than you
expect. These are all the positive signs
on one side of the equation. And on the
other hand, um to your point, we're also
investing in scale because this is a
business where um you need enough order
volume to make the math work. To get
there, you have to invest before you get
the demand. And so we needed to raise
capital. And there were a couple there
were a few years actually in a row,
three years in a row, 2016, 17, 18,
where I continued to struggle to raise
capital. And I think this was the part
that was quite difficult for us where
you have a company whose product seems
to be moving in the right direction
across any metric anyway you want to cut
the data. On the flip side you know I'm
receiving hundreds of rejections um for
investment. I think this was this was
certainly one of the most difficult
periods um so far that we've had to
overcome from the outside like having
never been fully a growth investor in
theory it should be deterministic like
mechanically what the growth investor
should be doing is well I get to look at
this data room I get to look at this
other data room they certainly give the
indication that like they have you know
a sense for what is normal in the market
and yet they were just like wrong about
you well I think one of the things I've
learned that's tough for an investor is
knowing when to invest. And I think that
it's really easy to invest when the
numbers are clear and that you know the
story of repeatable profitable growth
has happened enough times where you just
believe and then there are moments where
it's just before that moment. And I
think for Door Dash 2016, 17, 18, a lot
of those times or moments were just
before that moment. It's not an a game
that's just measured on your own scores.
It it's a relative score um in in some
ways, especially when a market hasn't
been yet defined or that it's not
obvious who the winner is. Investors
were were a bit gunshy because they saw
lots of people going for it, people who
are better capitalized. While Door Dash
may have had very strong numbers, it
wasn't obvious that it would merge as
the largest player. I mean the amazing
thing is you came out of like sort of
the capital as a bludgeon phase uh as
actually the winner like by 2019 you
actually had surpassed Uber Eats and
GrubHub and you became the category
leader. Well, all you need is one
investor to say yes. And so in 2018 when
we raised our series D in March, it was
obvious to the team internally what was
going to happen next. Everyone can have
an opinion about um their product
versus, you know, the fields, but one of
the hardest things to to really fool is
the retention and the engagement of a of
a product. And because Door Dash um
always had superior retention and
frequency, every dollar that we spent
would just go a lot farther for us than
anyone else. And so when we received the
capital to actually be able to invest
and launch all the geographies, it was
just a matter of time before Door Dash
would get to the um largest position. So
fast forward a little bit. I mean at the
start of COVID delivery demand cratered
and then skyrocketed and you cut
commissions in half. You ran a TV
campaign that advertised your
competitors. What gave you conviction
about that? What you know what was that
period like? Co was a bit of a blur.
COVID 2020 was a bit of a blur. Um we
were actually in 2019 preparing you know
to go public. Obviously CO um sheld
those plans but but you know CO was
probably next to 2013. So the the the co
year 2020 that is next to 2013 was
probably the year where it felt most
like Door Dash in YC. you know, it was
seven days a week, 10:00 a.m. to 2 am,
all hands on deck, you know, multiple,
you know, all company, you know, uh, uh,
meetings per day. And sometimes in in
crisis, I actually find that it's a lot
easier operating a company because it's
very clear what to do. Number one, job
number one, keep everyone safe, right?
Get tens of millions of units of PPE.
Make sure that we can ship no contact
delivery or contactless delivery. We
ship that product in four or five days.
Number two, got to make sure that
everybody gets liquid. Why? Because the
average merchant has 17 days of cash on
hand.
So every hour of cash is I is very very
important. Same thing for Dashers um who
who um a lot of them are f furoughed or
or laid off um because of COVID and and
so getting them instant liquidity. The
third thing was making sure that we
could take care of the community
actually. And so we partnered with
dozens of the largest hospital networks
um from UCSF or Stanford here in in
California to Mount Sinai on the east
coast where we wanted to make sure that
all the hospital workers and and nurses
um you know could get free delivery and
also because they were doing the hardest
jobs. Um it was very easy to run the
company. Now, you called out a couple of
decisions that were made that were more
controversial in the company. One was
running a national TV campaign where we
spent millions of dollars advertising on
behalf of the industry, basically saying
whether you order on us or any of our
peers, just order. You know, the dining
rooms may be closed, but the kitchens
are open. Um, and the other decision,
which we were the only platform to do,
we cut our commissions by half, which
cost us over $und00 million. Now, these
things sound inconsequential um when you
look at our balance sheet today. Back
then, Door Dash was not profitable. Um
and it was also when we were thinking
about going public um which is not
usually the first decision you'd make if
if that's what you know you're trying to
do. And you know to me I think what made
it easy was what do you want to build
became the question I I I think I asked
you know everybody who worked at the
company you know and are we just here to
build a company that ends in 2020 or
ends you know in an IPO or something. No
we're here to hopefully um build a
company that will grow and empower every
physical business and grow the GDP of
every city if we are successful in doing
so. that's not going to happen in 1
year, 2 years, 5 years, 10 years. That
hopefully can be a forever or an eternal
mission. And so when I thought about it
from that perspective, I mean, this was
a drop in the bucket in in the grand
scheme of the journey. And that's how we
made that decision. That's amazing. It's
so super long-termist basically. I think
that's the only way you can make some of
these decisions. I think if you're just
purely looking at some of these
decisions in the in the here and now or
just looking at it as a as a business
line item on a spreadsheet or something
like that, it's very difficult perhaps
to make the justification. I think
sometimes there are moments, it's not
always, but there are moments whether
it's the start of the company or a
crisis situation like CO 19 where it
becomes very clear why you're doing what
you're doing or should be very clear to
you why you're doing what you're doing.
And when you have that kind of clarity,
it makes it a lot easier to make those
decisions. What advice would you have
for sort of the 18 or 22year-old version
of yourself knowing what you know now?
And I might ask you to uh modify it a
little bit in that obviously we're at
the beginning of this sort of uh age of
intelligence, this boom in large
language models, you know, what what do
you have to pass on to the next
generation right now? One of the things
I would tell, you know, the the
18-year-old self is that um especially
when you're on the cusp of something
new, take AI, there's no better way to
be the expert than just to do the work.
And you might be surprised at how
quickly you get to become the expert. I
mean, that was really my experience with
logistics and delivery. I mean, I had no
background um in in in any of this, but
by doing deliveries two years in a row,
three years in a row, even 12 years
later, you get to very very quickly um
have a strong point of view on how the
physical world works. And whether
that's, you know, now in software, in
AI, in
biotechnology, in whatever field of
interest, the best way um really to be
the expert is just to get started and do
the work. What are you excited about for
Door Dash? Like what, you know, what
what comes next and what does Door Dash
look like in the future? I think there's
obviously a big um exploration and set
of battles right now for all of the the
digits and the bits, right? And and
these things obviously come and go in
terms of the level of excitement versus
the level of progress. And I'm long-term
super optimistic about what's happening
um in the digital world. I'm as
optimistic though about what's happening
in the physical world. I think um
sometimes we still forget that um it's
still even in 2025 whether it was 2013
when we started the company or or
present day that it is the physical
businesses small medium and large that
produced the vast majority of jobs and
GDP in any society and I think GDP
growth is probably the best offensive
weapon for any city and so I can't
really think of
anything more worthwhile than trying to
grow the GDP of the cities. And so, you
know, I I I think that as important as
the digital battles are happening, I
think there's still this um massive
opportunity to understand the physical
world, you know, where is the last
parking spot in a rainstorm here in San
Francisco? How many apples does the
local grocery store have in aisle 6?
These are questions that actually nobody
has the no LLM has the answer to. uh no
one uh has the answer to. And I think
that the physical world is just as
interesting as the digital world. When
you say GDP, I mean what that means is
prosperity, abundance, jobs, and uh you
know, problems being solved. So Tony,
thank you so much for creating Door Dash
and spending time with us. It's great to
be here.
[Music]