Title: 5 Papers That Show Where AI Research Is Heading Right Now
Video ID: 3rWSvrFahIY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rWSvrFahIY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-06-12T14:00:20Z
Duration: PT1H16M55S
Views: 60919
Likes: 2110
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 2208

Description:
It's hard to keep up with the latest AI research. That's why we started YC Paper Club — a small group of researchers, engineers, and founders who meet every two weeks at our Mountain View office to present and discuss new papers together. In this session, we cover whether scaling laws hold for protein biology, AlphaZero-style self-play for language models, streaming RAG for real-time voice agents, formal verification with Lean, and why one founder thinks programming with agents is exactly like p

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thank you guys so much for coming. This
one will have much a much more applied
bent based on the feedback. We have a
bunch of really cool people that I'll
introduce in a second, but we're
covering AI for uh biology by my
favorite one of my favorite co-
researchers, Yas Beg. We have Luke um
out of Tatsu's lab talking about
selfplay, Alpha Zero style selfplay for
LLMs. Super excited about that. Arnob
will be uh presenting he's a researcher
at Giga on stream rag uh super different
application you know thinking about uh
real realtime voice uh agents uh Robert
George working on lean for science super
exciting and then the AI token maxer
himself Luke Worthwine
cool so I want to introduce some like
call for presentations you know maybe
inspire some of my interest and maybe
inspire some some of you guys to jump up
and and ask for a presentation on this
stuff. I think memory has been like the
hot topic for at least the last year and
a half. There's been so many papers from
mem zero to recursive language models
cartridges out of uh our lab hnet, you
know, dynamic chunking stuff. There's so
many different ideas and so I'm
definitely interested in that area. If
you guys want to present on that, I did
this Nome Brown podcast I think a couple
weeks ago launched and like he's still
of the view that this human generated
subspace H is still if we train on that
we can test time compute our way out of
it and recursive self-improve out of it
all the way to get to this F minus H.
And I just like really struggle with
this and I really really don't see how
it's probable. Not that it won't it's
not possible, but it's just not probable
that we'll sample all of that. So, I'm
really interested in that and that's
definitely in Luke's. We were talking
about that a bunch and I think that
basically the left side is alpha go, the
right side is alpha zero. And I think
that alpha zero unbiased by um humans
meandering is uh the way we'll get to
much more intelligent systems, maybe
even dare say agi. And the right way to
say this um would be um I want to be
very careful. If the full solution space
f is f, training on known human
solutions will limit you to some typical
set h despite any feasible amount of
test time compute or recursive self um
improvement. You won't feasibly sample f
minus h. Um and especially all of it. If
if it's infinite recursive self
improvement, infinite test compute
maybe, but we don't have infinite. So
life's a pom dp and this is a we're
finite horizon mdp.
Intelligence per sample. I think this is
like the two major problems left in my
opinion are intelligence per sample,
intelligence per watt. And intelligence
per sample. I always think about this
like as I get one new sample, I do this
continuous learning. What is the right
thing to do if I'm trying my goal is to
maximize performance condition upon that
n. Most people's answer to this right
now in practice is ICL. And I actually
played with this. As you increase the
number of samples in ICL, it is not
monotonically improving in performance.
And so it actually starts to bob and
weave. It gets worse. It gets better
sometimes. Um and then it hits a cliff,
which is the context um uh length,
context length that the model was
trained on, and it literally just stops.
So it clearly can't go on forever. It
doesn't monotonically improve. And I
started playing around with Laura. I
think Laura at higher at lower ranks for
uh lower amounts of sample size actually
does impressively well. And then it has
this kind of arc. They both peter out
pretty quickly as you increase number of
samples all the way until you do SFT
group O all the way at the end. And if
you look at this, it's kind of weird
that like you have this like ICL is the
optimal thing to do in the beginning and
then training the whole thing. If I get
one new sample, I want to retrain with
Laura at some rank on N plus1 samples
just to get that little bump in
performance. And there's a different
optimal thing to do all along the way as
I stream and I get more and more
samples. And that's just not how we are.
So we're kind of like monotonically
improving. And the more chess games that
Magnus Carlson plays, he just keeps
getting better. The, you know, 10,000
hour rule, etc., etc., we just keep
getting better. And it's the same algo.
And so I think there's just something
really different happening in us. And so
there's must exist some learning
procedure that is has a much higher
intelligence per sample. And then
intelligence for Watt out of my lab,
Ivonica and John who will hopefully come
to the next one uh and give a talk on on
this. And I just think it's the right
way to think about it. Arguing that
having smaller models um are sometimes
actually better from an intelligence per
watt perspective. Alternatives to back
prop for those that know me, I'm very
hot on this. Back to the brain um and
how we learn. There's very little
evidence that the brain is taking the
transpose of the weight matrix and there
must exist some other learning
procedure. I'm highly interested in
SPSA, but if there's alternatives that
I'm not aware of, please like recommend
them. And I'm really interested in novel
breakthroughs. Yaso is one of my
favorite AI researchers, but he's mostly
focused on bio and he always um sends me
biopers and it's super interesting.
Whether it's about how birds navigate
the world via iron in their liver
apparently that's how they they actually
navigate
crazy robotics, uh speech, other things
like that as well. And then of course
unhinge founder hacks very interested in
that as well. Call for ideas on ways to
make the club better. So, better ways to
meet you if it's a lightning round if
it's not. Um, some people talked about
some AI benchmarks that we could
actually launch together. That'd be kind
of fun. Club challenges to challenge
each other. And then, uh, any open
source ideas that you want to hack on
together for this club or something or
otherwise. It' be very interesting. All
right, that's all I got. Thank you so
much.
>> Hi. Yeah. Uh, thanks France for that
introduction. We've been labmates now
for like two years, something like that.
Yeah. Um, I think France is a great
example of someone who brings very
creative and very out of distribution
ideas to our group all the time, even if
I sometimes like have no idea where he
gets them from. Um, but um, that being
said, uh, he asked me to give a talk on
some bioai things and I thought why not?
Um, so I'll be presenting on this paper
that came out just last week from Biohub
folks um, here in California, not too
far actually in the Bay Area. I think
they just moved to the city actually.
Um, so I am a second year PhD student
with France, but I'm also co-advised by
Steve Quake over at Stanford. Sort of
anyone in biology probably will know
Steve at least tangentially done a lot
of work in bioengineering and all kinds
of applications was director of the
biohub where this work came out um just
until recently. So uh a lot of uh a lot
of overlap but uh the high level pitch
for this work is that I know most of
this audience is probably more like AI
ML types. I want to talk a little bit
about how sort of a lot of these ideas
from sort of that's motivating a lot of
progress in language modeling and AI
very broadly have been sort of recently
been translating into biology with a
focus on this recent paper because I
think it really does a really excellent
job of interrogating how scale which you
know at some level has been like the
fundamental primitive in terms of
assumptions that we as a community have
in terms of how to make things better um
has actually been playing out for a lot
of these biological problems
particularly protein biology. So um
there won't be like much bio in this
talk. I'll try to focus more on the ML,
but feel free to ask questions. Um so
yeah, like I called this talk the uh
bitter lesson comes from biology. The
actual paper title is right below that.
But I mean just a quick refresher. I'm
sure everyone in this specific audience
probably read Richard Sutton's famous
article. You know, basic premise here is
that like, you know, across the past 70
years of AI, methods that win are
methods that are general that sort of
exploit really fundamentals of like
scaling compute and data as opposed to
methods that sort of handgineer human
domain, human domain knowledge. And
Sutton always cites his work in or like
you know a lot of the work that was
early in the field. So alpha go alpha go
zero that's sort of just inordinately
scaled compute and then for a long time
they were far worse than sort of expert
systems until they eventually overtook
and then exponentially improve past them
right knowledge systems win at first but
then eventually sort of these like big
large dumber models will like um you
know win in the long run this is sort of
a new goal in biology is to what extent
can we study like this is actually also
true for a lot of these sort of
biological AI problems right um the bet
sort of behind this paper and they do a
really exploring is well the same
pattern basically also saw protein
biology right um can we take like you
know a lot of these ideas in scaling law
analysis here is from the um uh famous
you know neural scaling laws paper and
then translate them for all these
problems that we care about for say
designing a drug or like you know trying
to understand how like a cell works
right so on the left is something that
we trust it's like a language model we
have like this nice smooth log linear
scaling laws that we see that moss like
predictively falls as a function of
compute and data uh the question on the
right is whether this curve will exist
for bio spec more generally but proteins
specifically in this paper you know sort
of does our LLM recipe transfer or does
biology really out of distributional
domain relative to language sort of
break it right that's the bet and like
in this talk I'll basically chat about
like three like vignettes from this
paper that sort of interrogate to what
extent this is true
so this slide is all the biology you'll
ever need about a quarter of the slide
at least for this presentation um let's
talk about proteins so in your body
there's like broadly three major classes
of macro molecules. There's lipids,
carbohydrates, and proteins. Um, a
protein is just a string of amino acids,
a special type of biomolelecule. There's
20 varieties of amino acids. If you put
them together into a sequence, you can
have like a virtually infinite number of
possible molecules that then fold into.
So, you can think about it largely as
just every single protein is this 20
letter alphabet. And that string
specifically determines a unique 3D
shape. And by virtue of the shape of
that protein, what job it does in your
cell like presents catalyzes a reaction,
keeps pathogens out, etc. Um, The work
done in this paper is that their goal is
to train um ESMC sort of their like
third major or fourth major iteration in
a long series of models of the group of
evolutionary scale group originally at
Meta then their own company now Biohub
have been training for a few years now
where the cell is very similar to
language where we let's just take
hundreds of millions of years of or sort
of evolved sequences that we've sort of
gone out and found across biology both
in humans but also across bacteria and
in our environment and just go train a
big mass language model on them, right?
So, I mean nowadays we mostly train NTP
models, but the pitch here is that if I
take some protein represented as like
you know these strings of 20 tokens like
hide a few and then can I train a really
big BERT style transformer to predict
mass positions as a function of the
other ones nearby. And the crucial part
is that we never tell it anything about
the protein beyond just the sequence.
Right? So all this guy's got access to
is just this string and it's being asked
to basically learn things about the
grammar of that protein as a function of
which protein other amino acids tend to
co-occur with right so like I think
there's like this old saying in natural
language processing it's like you'll
know a word by the company that it keeps
and here the idea is that you'll know a
protein by amino acids it keeps and the
bet is that if we do this at scale just
on the simple sequence task we will
eventually get all these sort of other
properties of protein say like structure
that we do care about sort of for
And uh yeah like I said before there's
been a lot of prior work on this like
largely from evolutionary scale but a
few other or a few other sort of groups
working largely on this bit. Uh this
table will be a map for the rest of the
talk. So like every row is a concept you
probably already know from natural
language and then analog onto the
protein context. So tokens become amino
acids. The internet becomes sort of all
evolution sequence databases all the
proteins we can actually go out and
measure. Mass token prediction stays as
mass token prediction and sort of
emerging capabilities. we talk about
language model having like become
emerging structure and function within
like basically understanding of a
protein and then there's also sort of
like this really fun stuff at the
bottom. So like recently there's been a
lot of advancements in sort of these
interpretability toolkits from the mechi
folks you know things like sparse
autoenccoders some of the earliest work
basically in really trying to
interrogate um using the toolkit the
language modeling community has built to
understand language models now in a
protein language model setting. So I'm
going to fill in the right hand column
for the rest of this talk with sort of
evidence and three questions which is
that do these models learn with scale?
Um can they basically substitute for a
lot of these handbuilt features sort of
does the bitter lesson hold and like
what do these representations actually
encode interpretably? So question one is
do scaling laws even hold in the protein
context in the way that we see them in
the language context. First let me just
try talk a little bit what we measure
when we're talking about sort of
emergent properties sort of how do we
actually like study the model see if
it's learning anything right we need a
proxy for does the model understand
protein structure for instance right um
the one the authors use in this paper is
that they look at the internal or they
basically take the model representations
during training and they use this to
predict um long distance protein
contacts so the idea here is that
proteins have a one-dimensional sequence
but they fold into complex
threedimensional shapes and if the model
is sort of understood something complex
about the protein structure or something
emerging about the protein structure. It
should be able to predict um contacts
that occur over long distances sort of
nearby contacts are rather kind of
obvious and this is like a really
challenging object for it to get just
sort of denovo purely from sequences
alone. They called this P at L right um
sort of a long contact precision at some
given length and it's just a clean
unsupervised readout sort of structural
knowledge inbuilt in the model that's
learned during this language modeling
objective. Um on the right I plot the
performance of this or the authors plot
the performance of this I should say
against training compute for the for
basically this new model family the
authors have built recently called the
ESM cranberry at 300 million 600 million
6 billion parameter scales. uh
interestingly and they had this fit line
which is basically this predict compute
optimality curve which they um estimated
just from sort of lowend training runs.
So relatively low computational budget
and they find it actually extrapolates
very cleanly to real model training runs
meaning so the answer is like do these
models with scale and this data at least
suggests that the answer is like yes
right like you do see this nice log
linear curve right if you keep investing
more and more compute you training more
and more protein data with larger and
larger models um you see the same exact
same broad qualitative shape as the LM
scaling or sort of LM setting and arrest
retransfers cleanly meaning that without
any kind of like predisposed part of the
model that we've taught to look at
purching structure even didn't get any
protein structures. It does a good job
of sort of picking these out just from
sequence co-occurrence patterns.
Um there's like one interesting twist
though is that I said before there's
been a lot of prior work from this group
as well as others and trying to answer
these scale questions. So not the first
ones to look at this but previous models
um so the sort of the prior generation
ESM2 models shown in um purple here had
actually not shown the same behavior.
They sort of hit this wall where they
kept adding more parameters and they got
diminishing returns and you had this
sort of flattening out the scaling
curve. this ESMC or ESM Cambrian model
sort of the green line keeps climbing
with no plateau. And their fix for this
wasn't really like they came up with
like a really clever inductive bias in
the architecture. Not to say there isn't
a lot of excellent engineering work in
this paper, but really it was just data
scaling, right? They um had about 50
million training samples in their
original ESM2 paper and here they just
pushed that to 2.8 billion by pulling
largely in metagenomic data. So
essentially amino acids or protein
sequences that have been found from
sequencing DNA actually out in like dirt
and oceans and like human guts from like
organisms that nobody has like really
ever cultured or even has really really
elucidated. And their conclusion is that
more data ends up being really important
and keep getting sort of uh are
basically justifying the cost for
increasing compute. So it's like the
protein version of LM data wall
conversation, right? Like except here in
biology, evolution has been generating
this train data for for four billion
years and not humans in like the past 30
or so. And you know compared to tokens
in natural language like I mean we've
only sampled like less than 1% of all
known protein sequence diversity and
that's like only currently at this
moment in time let alone like all of the
sequence diversity evolution has sampled
since the beginning of life on Earth.
Um sort of question two in this paper I
think is interesting is that um it's
sort of the most bitter lesson part and
they really try to evaluate to what
extent their paper can do or how well
their model trained purely on mass
language modeling objectives can compete
against a structure based model with
sort of handtuned inductive components.
So I'm sure you're all familiar with
Alphaold won the Nobel Prize a few years
ago was sort of a landmark moment in bio
really show that these computationals
have a lot of value in the biology
sphere. Alfold is brilliant but its
power comes from basically building
handput in or handbuilt inputs sort of a
manual feature curation called a
multiple sequence alignment or an MSA.
So to fold a protein it goes and finds
hundreds of evolutionary cousins of that
protein and stacks them up. Um these
patterns of sort of coariation across a
family are essentially this encodesical
information you need to do to be able to
get structure. This is like a beautiful
domain engineering application and it's
the sort of like really good human
crafting objective bias that the bitter
lessons at least claims should
eventually lose right think like hog
features in CD and compared to sort of
things we used to do before this is
actually like far more bitter lesson
than like say building a whole physics
simulator for a protein but it's also
really slow to do this right we need to
build this huge databases the sequence
alignment it takes time right and it's
absent precisely where you often want it
for instance the antibody design task we
come back to at the end um ESM just
throw this away all it says is it just
takes input sequence and instead of an
alignment and it just feeds in the
model's representations as the input to
their structure predictor and these are
just like per residue embeddings. So
take your input sequence you get a set
of like per amino acid just like some
numerical representation and we just
train the specialized module to do
predicting the like large protein
structure right so this folding network
it's kind of like a projection into uh
3D corded space so same target same
output no handbuilt features and the
question becomes can this general model
representation like match the sort of
specialist model in getting that MSA
value one interesting architectural note
though for sort of the more ML folks in
the crowd um the one there in their
projection networks for the part that
converts representation to structure.
There is actually one really interesting
feature that actually builds off some of
the work from our lab alum Dan Fu. Um
and they have a actually a looped model,
right? I mean there's a lot of
excitement about these recently for
parameter sharing and I just think
they're cool algorithmically for a
number of reasons.
And this is gives them basically a lever
by which they can scale inference time
compute, right? So essentially they have
a model that predicts structures and
they have a procedure by which
representations can be fed through a
series of layers and sort of refine
their structure predictions without
necessarily retraining or any kind of
fine tuning. This is like our test time
compute access and something like say
diffusion steps could be or like test
time sampling from LA lab. I'll keep
this in mind just for later results. And
the sort of like headline figure I would
say pointing out here is that um they
basically show that yeah their technique
works really well. Um just a quick
definitions on the left we have this
thing called DOCQ pass rate. This is
just a metric for how good your
structure prediction was. Essentially
it's a measure of the fraction of test
cases where the predicted shape of two
proteins stick that stick close together
is close enough to be like really useful
to realistic settings. And there are two
groups in each panel. One is for single
sequence with no MSA and the other is um
a single sequence plus an optional MSA
you can also feed to the model or is
required for competitor model. And when
we look at the sort of outcomes from
this, what we see is that for general
protein protein complexes, ESM fold 2,
their sort of new projection model from
a single sequence with no MSA lands
within about three points of alpha 3
which does take these handcrafted
features. So we get near par without the
crutch and but if we look at the
antibody applications which is on the
right on the left hand side here right
um the modality but is like you know
essentially behind like all modern NC or
MAB based drugs or monol antibodies tons
and tons of applications in human
biology and biotech. um we are actually
winning or are comparably winning or the
authors are comparably winning. So
broadly like single sequence ESM fold 2
does actually build alpha fold 3 sort of
50 versus 47 on this really specific
design task that people really do care
about and biologically this makes a lot
of sense compared to say like um other
classes of proteins the amount of sort
of sequence variation that's been
sampled in the space of all known
antibodies relative to structure is
considerably smaller considering their
enormous diversity. So the headline
isn't that MSAs are dead yet, right?
It's that handle features only help
where it's abundant and basically where
drug designers really need it often does
go away. And this general method still
basically just save a lot from
pre-treating across all known
revolutionary contacts.
So we're not quite there yet. And one
other thing though worth flagging is
that a second point says give it MSA. We
can also scale the amount of test time
compute. So how many loops we run in
this recursive model in order to prove
performance. And we do see um basically
returns on this meaning that like the
better loss at least at inference time
also seems to broadly hold. And it's not
just accurate just as an aside. This is
just quick um it's also just much
faster. MSA construction just takes a
lot of classical computational biology
time. So at least if throughput is your
concern or latency is your concern, you
can with this single representation like
get quicker results. Though the wall
clock times here are like you know well
within like I would consider to be
pretty good to start off with.
Um, and the last bit, I'll get through
this a little bit quicker, is just they
did a really interesting analysis of
like sort of mechanistic
interpretability, like what are these
models actually learning and sort of can
we find features that are interpretable
as humans in the same way that sort of
language modeling folks in the Mechai
community have found in language models
like anthropic has. Um here they sort of
just apply the same tool or they borrow
a lot of the tools for like sparse
coding analysis here where they look at
activations from these models and try to
see if they can decouple them find these
like mono semantic activating directions
inside their feature spaces and they ask
is this also going to be a property in
protein models and their answer is
largely yes um right so from like pure
fill-in-the-blank pre-training the
model's latent space decomposes into
clean features that correspond to real
biological concepts here the these
concepts have been annotated by LM
agents And they're organized actually
quite interestingly in a nice hierarchy.
So you have like features that
correspond to say individual amino acids
at the bottom then like structural
motifs then like whole protein domains,
right? So look longer or larger portions
of the individual protein molecule up to
like functional sites and whole protein
roles, right? And none of this was
supervised, right? The model like
learned to organize its latent space
purely just through MLM, which is like
crazy. Um
I'll just with one example maybe to
close things out before I finish
everything and I think I'm actually have
one more slide after this. Um this is a
instance of a feature activation that
corresponds to a really specific
well-known protein motif called the
nucleophilic elbow. This is a type of
catalytic domain that's used in a lot of
enzyme catalysis. It's really
interesting because it's evolved
multiple times in multiple different
proteins unrelated to each other. So
it's a it's a vitif biology keeps coming
back to and the model has basically
learned to identify in the four quite
structurally diverse proteins from like
both evolutionary distance as well as
the rest of the protein. So it's like
found a consistently occurring motif in
very different backgrounds. So it's like
it's basically learn to look at the
right thing not just sort of memorizing
like you know broad similarly comparable
sequences. It's like a deeper level of
intuition.
And if you look at the sort of the whole
SE activation space, you can find like
nice structures that sort of correspond
to like various known aspects of
biology, right? This organization isn't
just local, it scales to all of life,
right? So they um ended up building
actually a huge atlas of their pro with
their model afterwards sort of just
folding and analyzing um millions of or
up to I think seven billion proteins.
This is the largest atlas I think out
there in alpha protein structure
databases, more than alpha folds even.
And they've predicted like you know O of
a billion of these as I mentioned before
and laid them out here by the
representations in SAPE space and you
get like a really nice interesting like
protein space family map right you can
find that there's clear families that'll
cross clear here are like for instance
crisper castine enzymes which if you're
not a biologist maybe you still probably
have heard of and really important for a
lot of biotechnology applications it's
kind of like a Google maps from proteins
and it's produced all as a byproduct of
the model right like just naturally it's
like picked up evolutionary relationship
as well as functional ones just denovo
for free which I think is like I don't
know if you're maybe not a protein nerd
like me I just think this is like
utterly crazy right
um so like just to finish like does a
bitter lesson scale to biology not
perfectly yet I mean some of this
analysis still requires a lot of
handcrafted features and it's not fully
competitive but we're getting very close
um but even if we just don't care about
one specific downstream the model just
from a relatively quite small amount of
or like a relatively quite simple
pre-training objective and a lot of data
has like learned an enormous amount of
bio that we can reverse interrogate
after the fact um and just for record
like they found that data scaling does
keep improving. Um I want to just point
out you know partially as a process like
our partially just like try to convert a
lot of smart people like we have in the
audience there's lots of folks work on
ML a lot of applications software um
biology is a great place to work in ML
because the models are still really
young and the other thing is that the
data is increasing exponentially per
year and that rate of increase is also
going up meaning that like we're not
data limited it's a great time to work
in this space and we need a lot of these
tools uh and any audience members
watching this on YouTube similar pitch
um just as one last thing um I didn't
get talking into detail but the one
application they use for their models
for inverse design. So they actually
develop a lot of potential protein drugs
and they validate a lot of use at least
in um wet lab settings to show that
these are potential like proteins that
you can design using this model purely
in sequence space for the most part by
the way um with the exception of like
one structure head at the end um that
bind various like known molecules that
have therapeutic effect right so for
instance uh this PDL1 binder is
basically the most or is like basically
a medication that is now the sort of big
success of amunotherapy it's helped
plenty of patients with cancers in ways
that historically have never been able
to tackle before, right? And developing
medications that sort of targeted this
protein was immensely challenging. And
like if we can basically reduce the
costs for developing such future drugs
for future targets, it would have
enormous human impact. So like even if
the data scale doesn't sell you, then
maybe some of the human impact will. But
broadly speaking, it's a really exciting
time and it's wonderful to see that a
lot of these lessons are at least
translating and people are really making
steady progress.
Okay, next we have Luke. um second year
PhD out of uh Tatsu and Tangu's lab uh
fresh from the UK. Then he went to
Harvard CS uh worked on adversarial
robustness and now post-training
selfplay and is directly uh uh in the
spirit of this um alpha zero kind of
mindset and so we've been chatting with
that about that a lot. All right, please
welcome Luke.
Okay. Hi everyone. Um, yeah, I'm Luke.
Um, I guess I'll be presenting on
this paper we put out uh a few months
ago called Scaling Selfplay with
Selfguidance. I guess more generally,
I'll be talking about selfplay for LMS.
Um, this work was with some great
co-authors, Caillou, Kan, and my two
advisers, Tatu and Tangu.
Okay, so um, what does the current
training stack look like for big LMS?
Two simple parts basically. We pre-train
the model on web text and then we
postrain it. And interestingly recently
the post- trainining we've ended up
spending you know a huge amount of
compute on doing large scale long
reinforcement learning runs. And what
does that reinforcement learning look
like? You collect a huge number of tasks
coding tasks maths tasks tasks
interacting with different bits of
software. And you just have the agent
take a bunch of actions in those
environments. you get some reward back
and we train the model on that data
upwaiting the good rollouts down waiting
the bad rollouts and like I said the
interesting change that's happened is
we're now approaching the amount or even
surpassing that we're spending on
pre-training actually on this very long
running RL post training and I've swept
some things under the rug that we do at
post training as well like a bit of
instruction tuning and and uh alignment
but really most of the compute spent on
these long RL runs
okay so we also know that as we increase
the number of uh RL tasks during post-
training and we increase the amount of
compute we get better downstream
performance and I think this is best
illustrated by this like really
beautiful plot from the composer 2
technical report from cursor where what
they're both basically showing is they
have loads of RL tasks such that they
only ever the model only ever sees each
task once and so on the x-axis scaling
training step is basically each training
step I'm putting in some compute and a
new RL task and what they show is nice
smooth line as you increase the amount
of tasks and compute you put in, you get
this reliable improvement.
And I guess they had this nice eval set
on the left, but they also have a
downstream benchmark on actual coding on
the right. And that's also like
increasing reliably in a really nice
way. This recipe tells us great, just
collect more and more RL tasks, put them
in a loop, and model going to keep
getting better and better. But
generally, we're going to have to
collect these RL tasks by hand, which
might be a problem if you want to keep
on feeding. You'll notice log scale on
the x-axis there. And I guess there's
another problem where you might think
that um eventually we'd like the model
to surpass any of the problems we can
give it.
So I guess the question that Cell Play
asks is how can we automatically
generate new RL task to the model, train
on those and repeat.
Okay, so like I said in traditional RL,
we'll have a predefined task and we
train the model on that predefined
environment and task.
But in selfplay, we do something
slightly different where the model does
two things. It's going to generate RL
tasks and it's going to attempt to solve
those tasks. And crucially, we train it
to be better at both of these things.
So, we train it to be better at in
virtual commas, we'll go through what it
means to be better to generate tasks and
then also to get high reward in those
tasks.
So, how do we fit I guess some papers
we've likely seen from the past into
this description of selfplay? Because
you might be thinking, this doesn't look
exactly like what I thought of when I
read the alpha go alpha zero paper. So
those traditional works we'd call
symmetric selfplay.
And in this case uh let's say in alpha
go how you train the model is you have
the go agent and then you have the rules
of go and you have the go board. That's
great but that is nonrl environment I
can interact with. Like I need an
opponent to play against. And so this
generate RL task part. They have an
older version of the agent take the role
of the opponent. So in this case
generating the task because I just put
an older version of myself in there and
now I have a nice RL task. It's a go
board with an opponent.
So this would traditionally be called
symmetric selfplay because the model is
taking on the same ball twice, a go
player.
More recently, however, uh in the LM
space, there's been the rise of
asymmetric selfplay. This actually hails
from a lot of older work on control
problems and things like this. But
asymmetric selfplay, we instead more
generally just have a model that I will
call in this talk a conjecturer that
will just generate entire RL tasks for
the solver to then operate in. The
solver is the equivalent of the agent
here. So the conjecturer might come up
with a coding problem and then come up
with a bunch of unit tests and then
it'll go into that environment to do a
bunch of rollouts, get reward and train
on that.
Great. So so why do why am I excited
about selfplay? Why do I think you
should be excited about selfplay? So I
guess this first point is
the first point I have to go go in some
some depth. So so in principle nothing
bounds learning. And what do I mean by
that? So if I take a bunch of
demonstrations from humans and I train a
model on that, I think it's clear that
the model will never get better than
those demonstrations.
So the next step is okay, I'm going to
create a bunch of environments out of
the model learning those environments.
That's regular RL. We have two problems
there. One, if you ace all of the
environments, you'll never get any
better. Or the second problem is if I
can't even get any reward in those
environments, I will also never get any
better. So selfplay on the other hand is
going to say I'm going to keep on
generating new learning signal with new
tasks. learn it and just keep on
improving hopefully forever.
And indeed, we saw this was the case
with two-player games like Go. It just
kept on getting better beyond human uh
performance and kept improving. So, the
promise for LM is I can take some I can
train on a bunch of human data. I get to
like human level and then I can run
loads of selfplay and go far beyond that
and hopefully solve really interesting
problems with with our models.
But unfortunately, this is not how it
works.
So in practice if I run which we'll get
into this talk if I run selfplayer for a
long time it plateaus I the model stops
improving at some point which is the
exact same that happens when you run RL
like as much as I'm trying to tell you
there's a bunch of secret source going
on like it doesn't actually play out.
So basically this paper we try to figure
out like why is this happening and then
like do one step to solving the problem
but by no mean by no means completely
solve it. Okay. So to begin with we need
to understand like the baseline LM
selfplay algorithm pretty simple we're
going to sample synthetic tasks from the
conjecturer which is just our model
conjecture and solver same model just
given it two different names the model
will then the solver then attempts them
and we verify the correctness using
some reward signal somehow like perhaps
the conjectur wrote unit tests for us to
check and then we're going to update the
solver just on all the correct rollouts
and then this is the key part the
conjecturer gets updated ated on this
reward which is zero if the prover if
the solver could not solve the problem
and one minus the solver rate otherwise
okay what is that actually doing that is
basically saying all the conjecturer
must do is produce problems that are
hard for the solver model and I think in
principle that makes a lot of sense the
idea is if the conjecturer can ace this
I will keep on giving you problems at
the frontier of your capability you will
be able to solve them and learn from
them and we'll just keep on expanding
and expanding expanding and get better
and better and
Okay, so let's see how this recipe does.
So we take in our paper like 3,000
formal math problems. So this is just uh
in lean for you can write out the
problem statement in this coding
language in math. So you write out a
math problem in this coding language.
You can write the proof in the coding
language. Then you can automatically
verify if it's correct. So we take 3,000
problems and we run like our best RL
baseline on it. And this is the amount
of compute we put in here. And on the y
axis we have how many problems you
solve. And you can see it plateaus out
and we fit a law and it asmmptotes at
like 60%.
And if we on the right hand side we're
gonna say how much synthetic new task
did we generate. RL generates no
synthetic task. So by construction this
stays at zero. Now I'm going to fill in
the vanilla selfplayer with that solver
rate reward. And I'm not going to show
the left for now. We see as time goes on
the conjecture gets better and better at
its job. It keeps on generating more and
more tasks on the frontier of the
solver's capabilities which seems really
good and yet these tasks are completely
useless. The cell play does no better
than regular RL.
So this is not very promising. So now we
need to understand why. And here what
I'm visualizing or I'm literally showing
you is one of the problems the
conjecture generates late on in
training. And we don't really understand
this. I've highlighted in blue that the
conclusion to the statement in lean. And
if anyone's using that this is horrific.
This is an incredibly complicated,
overly complex disaster of a statement.
And so what is basically happening is we
reward the conjecture for producing
tricky problems. But the easiest way to
produce tricky problems is produce these
basically messy, artificially complex
and elegant problems. It is the exact
equivalent of if I wanted you to get
like 50% solve rate problem, I could
just give you like a three-page long
high school calculus problem and you
would make some little mistake
somewhere. But that was a completely
useless synthetic problem for like other
tasks we care about in maths for
example.
Great. So how do we fix this in a minute
because I've been talking too slowly.
So we've diagnosed this problem. Here is
like roughly at a high level how we try
attempt to solve it. So there are two
parts of our algorithm SGS self-guided
selfplay. We're going to take the set of
problems we cannot solve the 3,000
problems and we do two things. one for
each of those problems we cannot solve
we're going to get the conjecturer to
produce a related problem to it. So once
you prompt it to produce a synthetic
problem that is related. So this way
we're trying to ground the synthetic
data distribution in a distribution of
problems that we think is good at least.
And next if you still just trained on
the solvent rate reward you would
eventually ignore this prior and still
produce that junk. So we're going to
introduce a new reward signal which is
the model takes on a third role and it
will literally judge it looks at
synthetic problem and the target problem
it came from and decide if these two
things are actually related and not
overly complex. So we call this third
component a guide.
Okay. So the algorithm looks like this.
It's very similar. We for every target
problem we haven't solved we'll sample a
conjecture uh from the conjecture that
is related to it. We then will attempt
to solve them. And then what changed
here is when we update the conjecturer,
we now have this dual reward. One, we
still want the problem to be tricky.
That is important. So we can get RL
signal on it for the solder. And we'll
multiply it by this guide score. Great.
Okay. There's a bunch of kind of
subtleties we cover in the paper that I
will skip over because we don't have
loads of time. If you want to talk about
I'm going to say largeish scale RL
infra, the academic size. That's what I
spent most of my time doing. So I would
like to talk about that, but there is
not time. So let's just look at the head
headline results here. Here is basically
the same type of plot. I've put the RL
baseline on here. Recall that like
standard selfplay is exactly in line
with that. We've also put parallel
sampling down here just to show you that
indeed RL at least gives you a boost.
And I guess I wouldn't be here unless
our method works better. So the method
does work better. Um like ground how
much better it's doing. We we we were
using a 7 billion parameter model here
and this is it like 670B like big
brother and we spend eight times as much
compute doing the selfplay at this you
yeah we do eight times compute the
selfplay but we get like to the ability
of that larger model at least it's pass
up for ability so you spend a lot more
compute but we are able to get this like
little 7B guy to do as well as the
bigger model but very sadly you will
notice like this is not at 100%. So like
the work is is by far not done. The
problems itself plays like you would
just ate all the problems here and so
there's a bunch of well there's lots of
future work but luckily a PhD is very
long so I'll be able to work on that.
Um but yeah that's the summary.
Awesome. Thank you so much Luke Bailey.
Okay uh next one we have Arnab Matei. Is
that the right way to say it? Matei. um
who is a researcher currently at Giga
one of YC's fastest growing companies I
think market cap is like 400 million 300
million something like that now so
really fast growing YC company uh PhD
University of Washington focus on bandit
learning um yeah please let's tell us
about stream rag
>> so um there's a paper by the group at
meta and I kind of chose chose this
paper to kind of maybe highlight some of
the new emerging challenges that are
coming up especially in a voice AI kind
of setup. Um my goal with this talk is
not more like about talking specific
details about this paper but more like
to highlight the good problems that they
have identified and I feel like there's
a lot of research that is to be done
here and it also kind of closely mirrors
what at least I do in my production uh
setup like I look at these kind of
problems I do the research and then I
try to come up with a method that will
work probably in production. So yeah,
let's get started. This is a very
classical setup where uh you probably
ask a input question to an alm and it
gives an output. And if you remember
maybe from 2023 maybe there was a lot of
hallucinations but especially like say
around citations and all but over time
maybe the hallucinations went down and a
big role
was uh rag like you kind of give the
input query to a rag system. it kind of
goes and figures out relevant
information that needs to be provided to
an LLM and then the LM probably gives
you an output which is hopefully not
hallucinated.
Now uh a lot of voice AI uh startups are
also coming up and
a natural expectation with the voice AI
is that okay you're having like a
conversation like oh you can ask oh
what's the weather like and the agent
would reply like hey the weather
currently is like 22°C
and so on and maybe you can ask a
follow-up question so it's more like
conversational in nature
and so even here as well you would like
the output to We like there shouldn't be
any hallucination. Especially in voice,
we care about this even more because
from a human perspective, it's difficult
to kind of actively catch hallucinations
when you're listening to it compared to
like when you're reading it over text.
So one might ask, okay, what's the issue
with just using rag here? like can't you
just take the input query take apply rag
give the relevant information to the
voice agent and get the output the issue
is that rag would add a lot of latency
um like for example if I ask a voice
agent some question and the voice agent
takes 10 seconds to reply that's not at
all natural especially if you want to
have some sort of natural conversation
so that's where this paper kind of looks
at A very clever idea I would say uh
which is like instead of like waiting
for the question to end and then
activate your rag pipeline you kind of
start analyzing the words that are being
spoken by the user and somehow figure
out a way to
run the rag system while the question is
being spoken. Like for example uh like
you might ask like hey what's the
weather today like I'm I want to decide
based on that whether I want to go out
or not. The main question is in the
first part. So the second part of your
question might be irrelevant. So we want
um some sort of uh mechanism via which
we can figure out okay uh when to call
this rack system and appropriately get
the right uh information.
So this particular paper focuses on two
approaches. Uh the first one is fairly
simple. Um so it's called fixed rag uh
fixed interval streaming rag. So the
idea is like you divide the audio into
certain blocks and after each block
arrives you can like run rag on every
block. So
uh so after when the block B arrives you
run your rag get the results for the rag
RB and you keep on doing till this uh
till the end probably. Now the question
the main question here is like which
block to consider because you ideally
cannot like wait the entire goal was you
cannot wait till the end and then run
the rag. So what do you do? So the main
uh maybe idea here is that rack pipeline
has lot of mini components. So maybe
some of the components are like easy to
run or like more faster to run. So for
example uh you can kind of get some
documents very quickly and you can say
okay for the entire query what were the
top documents and for the intermediate
query what were the top documents and
are they matching or not? This is just
one of the ideas which is from the
paper. Uh and then based on that you can
decide okay should I go ahead with the
intermediate query and uh just do the
entire rack pipeline on that. Um so the
thing I want to stress is not the method
per se but the point that okay when you
are getting this uh input in chunks at
what point can you stop and say that
okay like this chunk is like super
relevant for me. Uh so this is like an
active question I would say like how
would you do that? This uh paper does it
in a very simple manner which is just to
maybe look at the initial path of the
rack pipeline and if they kind of match
like if the end path matches the
intermediate part then you go ahead with
the intermediate and let the full rack
pipeline complete. Another approach
could be like you you can probably
fine-tune a model to kind of trigger on
its own like when to call the rack
because in the previous approach you
were calling rag on every single chunk.
So maybe that's computationally
wasteful. So what you can probably do
is when a particular chunk arrives you
can maybe fine-tune some model and ask
it to decide whether
uh this chunk uh is like in critical new
information and you should generate a
new query or the query that you
generated based on the past chunks are
good enough for you to just answer the
question. And uh based on that you can
generate the final audio.
Yeah. So in in the paper they kind of
describe a post- training pipeline. What
they do is like they kind of uh for the
partial uh spoken uh question they kind
of generate some pseudo queries using
some LLM and then uh they run a rag on
that and they look at the retrieved
documents
and based on the retrieved documents
they kind of decide okay is this uh
partial query like uh something new or
is it already like we already have the
useful material.
So in this okay um in this paper
essentially they are kind of basing
their decision based on the retrieval
quality of the partial question so far.
That's that would be my takeaway. But
maybe there are different ways in which
you can do this assessment. Maybe you
can look into the semantic of the
question so far like is the partial
question so far good enough for me to
answer this question just by looking at
the question. No no no need to do this
entire lag pipeline. So there are my my
point is like you need not uh this need
not be the only way there might be so
many different ways and that's where the
research maybe uh is required like while
a user is speaking their question how do
we like on like why instead of waiting
till the end how do we like figure out
okay this part of that question is good
enough for us to go and do the retrieval
yeah so that that's what they do
probably I'll
quickly give a glimpse of the results
from the paper. Um
this paper is a year old. So they were
like yeah looking at some smaller open
source models. Um so they were they kind
of considered the rag benchmark
converted into audio and uh showed that
the latency kind of decreases for the
synthetic data sets by 0.5 seconds and
for human data sets like human spoken
data sets by uh almost like 1.5 seconds
and uh the accuracy
uh comparison like uh if there was rag
uh after the final query and streaming
rags it kind of remains the same like um
yeah so yeah so that's what the paper is
about so like the key takeaway is like
there are some interesting small
problems here like but if you can crack
the small problems it can lead to huge
gains in the production yeah thank you
okay next up we have Robert George. Um,
come on up. Uh, thirdyear PhD at
Caltech.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. My brother got his PhD at Caltech.
>> Um, and, uh, you work on AI for math and
science.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and what are you going to tell us
about?
>> I'm going to tell us about lean.
Basically, Luke already told a little
bit, but I want to go more in depth. So,
I'm going to be talking about lean and
what I think is this new era of verified
intelligence. Um so let's get into it.
So again there's bunch of breakthroughs
in the past like couple of weeks itself
like first I want to go back like two
years before you know like we said that
IMO open and even deepine actually at
the 2024 IMO got the gold medal then you
know there's this very famous problem
list which is very famous right now
where people are trying to kind of solve
new open unsolved odos problems and you
know you can see that it's keep on keep
on increasing with the new models from
like open AAI depend and all. Um just
two weeks ago OpenAI claimed to solve
another big breakthrough 80-year-old
Odosh problems. You know Terry Tower was
has this promotional video at OpenAI
which he showed really well about these
kind of things. And then last week
Deepmind released something also solving
bunch of new not only ODOS problems but
problems in like other different fields
right but this paper is cool because
they also use some kind of formal
verification in the loop. So I want to
say that you know we all took like high
school calculus we took undergrad
college math courses and all this you
know informal math is very very flexible
right um your your professor say
sometimes you know proof by QED like you
know sometimes it's like proof by
intimidation or something that right
there many of the steps are not fully
written down but this is where I believe
that you know formal world is like you
have to be fully explicit right and I'll
talk and introduce the language lean
again before lean In past couple of
hundred years, you know, people have
been doing formal math a lot, but you
know, lean has just kind of this really
good design language just kind of taken
off, right? So again, first thing is
it's very easy to check if a proof is
correct or not. You cannot fool this
theorem prover. Secondly, uh it's
scalable. Again, there's bunch of issues
over there, but I can talk more about
that soon. So before that I just want to
give you like a precursor. So people do
know about like um there was a thing
previously like in the 1990s even right
now actually 2020s and all this is
there's this thing called automatic
theorem provers which are basically like
SMT solvers um they are basically um
minimal effort from humans you know but
they're very limited expressivity in
what type of mathematics they can encode
in some sense right and on the far right
hand side you can see interactive
theorem provers like lean rogue Isabel
which are very have a much more stricter
like expressive logic system. So it's
based at least some of them are based on
dependent type theory but much more
effort from humans to kind of write down
these proofs right like if you're
talking about like 10 years people have
been contributing to this very famous
library called math lab in lean um
there's a lot of human effort to kind of
pick premises and all this and again we
all know how good LLMs are right now at
kind of combining with these kind of
theorem provers to kind of do proof
checking for like research level math
right and it's so much news that I you
know if If I go on Twitter right now, I
can open up a bunch of posts saying how
much progress past couple of hour
probably in some sense right so first
thing is I want to introduce why leen
you know Luke mentioned this formal very
messy language but I actually think it's
a very beautiful language again one can
argue no but um it's a very fast
language again it's also people think of
it as only a theorem prover but it's
actually also a functional programming
language right you can use it as a
programming language itself so it's
compile checking Um it's very good
unified. So this is what like the proofs
and programs. Um you can do like meta
programming, you can do macros, custom
automation, you know, you can I've seen
people trying to even create like games
on with using lean, right? It's actually
super cool. So lean has something called
the foreign face interface where you can
do like external library bindings like
you can do on the CUDA or something that
um I want to point out the math liy. I
think that is the coolest biggest
formalized math library out there. um I
forgot how many number of lines probably
at least in a million or so but all of
these are really high quality math right
from like say topology to algebraic
geometry and all this and again it's an
interactive theorem prover so you always
have to you know the human can sometimes
be in a loop but it is also a very
scalable language because you know not
only frontier labs are pushing a lot of
money into it and also the world is but
um there's more data being generated
either through synthetic or like a lot
of people like even myself I do manual
formalizations. Um so just very short I
don't want to take time but this is how
a simple lean code looks like like in VS
code you have like an info goal view
which shows like what are the current
kind of sub goals. So goal is basically
like what are you trying to prove at
this step. So the first theorem is like
you're basically showing associivity of
addition of like natural numbers right
like a plus b plus c is equal to a plus
c plus b and each line in a proof is
usually called like a tactic. So usually
when people talk about like proof search
they mean like you know you can search
over this kind of tactic space there are
methods where you do foolproof
generation but you know these are the
two different axis. So this is how lean
code looks. It's not as bad as it seems.
It's a steep learning curve. I think
it's much better than even C++ in some
sense like learning but um you at least
get really um at least for me I get very
happy when I see oh I've fully proven
this theorem right there's no
assumptions like I cannot like handwave
or fool the lean kernel basically like
you have to be fully 100% sure um now I
want to talk about the formalization
breakthroughs right I talked about
informal but actually the first book was
actually in 2020 Ilia and uh Stan was
from open they released something called
GPDF um this was first generative
language model for automatic theorem
proving mini F2F is just like a Olympia
level kind of competition but you see
the amount of progress like it's kind of
exponential right like from open source
models big players in China in the US
Canada like across the entire world um
last year's IMO you know again deep mind
claimed to not have used lean I if you
see the open air solutions some kind of
DSL of lean kind of stuff in the
solutions um but even Steve prover from
China also got the IMO gold And then
obviously there's a bunch of like axi
improver there's harmonic AI like they
got recently in the pakam they got all
the 12 problems solved
most of the odos problems now when
people are saying they kind of um claim
to have a solution using AI they also
prove it um using like say Aristotle
from harmonic um and then another
amazing work was kind of this fields
metal work from math inc and obviously
the Google Google deep mind stuff in
some sense right and again I love the
fact that you know everyone's is talking
about math and all but you know for me
personally there's also these two other
bubbles right like there's also code now
one can argue what is program
verification as well you know bugs are
really expensive it's like a huge
trillion dollar industry wide coding is
all of a sudden really great like
everyone is generating but we I want
code that needs guarantees right I think
that's like something which I'm very
interested in and also AI for science
matters like there's uh repro uh
reproducibility and all this kind of
stuff so I want to go through this
really fast but um LMS can write code
but can they prove it's correct um you
know there's scale of generated code
there's that of bugs uh how can you kind
of capture human intent and the
verification language and again in short
I want to talk about like program
verification is like there's these three
concepts where humans actually always
have some kind of like specification
about like what they want their code to
do so a proof is basically saying that
the code kind of satisfies that
specification um there's this work which
I introduced called bridge where you can
use this lean as a functions programming
language to kind of elicitate the llms
to kind of prove this kind of code
better. Um so I like this code from max
tagm where they say that we should shift
from actually wide coding to like very
coding right. Um verifiable coding will
be like definitely I think a much more
better way. Um and you should contribute
to CS lab. This is started from Clark
Barry's group at Stanford. There's bunch
of from deep mind and all. But if you
want to contribute to CS concepts and
all, you should definitely contribute
with CSL. Um I want to go through
quickly just about one last work about
uh torch which I recently introduced.
This is the first unified framework for
actually writing down neural networks in
lean. So you have this kind of full like
pytor style like tensor system.
Everything compiles down to a shared
intermediate representation. You can
kind of prove properties of specs like I
can show you some examples. You have
like verified floatingoint arithmetic.
you can kind of do even like neural
network verification like certified
robustness kind of stuff right and again
there's bunch of applications which I
show but I think one cool thing that
I'll show this and the next slide is
that you know you can show that the
flash attention is equal to like at
least in the spec level is equal to the
uh normal standard attention right again
we don't worry about like IO and all
this processing also you can a very
standard fact is like the attention
mechanism is permutation in if you don't
have position like curtains so I
actually kind of trained a GP2 style
like Karpathi's thing in torching itself
fully natively in lean right and you can
kind of prove properties about it and
all this um one thing I think I can end
with this slide is that thinking machine
lab last year released something about
um this kind of non-determinism even
when you have like temperature zero um
when you put it into your LM inference I
actually kind of formalize this whole
system in torch lean all the way down to
like almost a GPU kind of like small
cuda level kernel verification because
the whole goal in this blog was saying
that the tiny floatingoint arithmetics
can flip the final argmax in the kind of
the batch thing. So again there's a blog
you can check it out on my website but
uh I was very very cool that you can
kind of do real life software
verification
um in some sense and uh again there's a
bunch of different slides I have but I
kind of want to end on this note just
for the sake of time but you know I see
a future where uh science like even code
can be formally verified through a lot
of building blocks which people are
putting a lot of effort in and this is
one of the examples that I think is like
my fuse matter like kind of contribution
to the ammo wall in some sense.
>> All right, great job. Okay,
for our last presentation, it's going to
be the antithesis of lean
and token maxing to the max. Um, very
excited uh to introduce Luke Orthwine,
his close friend. um we're friends in in
uh in Woodside together. Um and did his
uh CS degree at Harvard, then ran growth
at WeChatad from 2012 till 2015. Uh
which is why we call him the lion of
Hong Kong.
Um and now has been running his startup
channel AI and is probably the most
unhinged technical CEO that I know. So
>> thank you Francois.
Um yeah so the the idea behind this talk
is sort of um what we uh at channel have
done to try to take the the best
advantage of sort of rethinking how you
should do software engineering in this
world of agentic programming assistance
cla etc. Um and really you know the the
ways in which uh I think many
assumptions about what good programming
is are now sort of the opposite of what
you should be doing. Uh and these are
sort of what we have have worked through
ourselves and found very useful and
wanted to share with all you guys to
give some context. channel AI. We're a
consumer entertainment uh AI business.
Uh and we're really focused on the
problem of automating as much as
possible of not just software
development but content development. How
do you really create like an endto-end
system uh that is pure AI that uh gets
people to pay you money uh and stay
engaged etc. Uh we've had pretty solid
success with that so far. Um, and it's
inspired us to think in our own
workflows, how can we just sort of max
this and and be as far ahead of the
curve as possible. Um, and chess is an
imperfect analogy to what programming
used to be like, but I think the ways
that it uh is useful is like yeah, maybe
programming before you wanted to be very
linear. You wanted to predict the
future. You wanted to design very
thoughtfully systems that would be like
robust and work well uh and and be
correct. Um, and even if you're trying
to do something sloppily, it's still
like a single threaded process where you
only are worrying at a given moment
about what's in front of you. Um, and to
me, I'm a big fan of real-time strategy
games using Agentic systems. Feels
exactly like playing real-time strategy
games to me. Uh, and there are a lot of
properties of those games that are very
different from chess. Um, one thing and
especially if you look at like highle
play uh there is no single aspect that
you can do perfectly and like succeed.
You have to be balancing many different
things at once. You have to always have
your economy running, your production
running, your units doing something
productive. You need to be engaging. And
so this notion of like how do you
maximally parallelize both what your
systems are doing but also your
attention so that you are adding the
corrective
uh feedback that's necessary as you
learn new things as the map is exposed
all this kind of stuff. Um anyway this
to me feels like exactly what like
coding with agents is like um and this
what we'll talk about. Um so in terms of
like tools we've built just to like
ground this in a very simple thing. This
is the LW stuff is just like our linear
work trees. Um, a lot of people early on
started using realizing how useful git
work trees are when you do coding
development. Having separate uh I assume
everybody kind of knows where they are,
but in case not like you know it was
fine to have one repo on your machine
when you were the only one doing
development. Now you need to have like
lots and lots of repos on your machine
all doing development in parallel. Uh
all compiling separately and like not
stepping on each other's toes. Um and so
the combination of like uh using work
trees, using task management software,
uh having the actual work itself be
portable, um which is what the team bit
comes in, and then like sticking in
autonomous agents, one or many different
ones on a given workflow. Um the way
that we basically ship stuff, the way I
ship stuff, uh is I have an orchestrator
agent that's run by Claude usually, but
could be codeex 2. Uh, I try to have as
minimal a number of keystrokes as
possible to go from like here's an idea
of something that needs to be fixed to
work being started on it because I can
course correct that work later. Think
like grabbing a unit and just like
clicking across the map and you'll come
back later to like make it work
effectively. Um, status tracking,
watching your mini map, it's the RTS
equivalent uh from the orchestrator of
all the different uh spawned workers
that you have working. Uh, and then all
those workers being instructed basically
to try to go as far as they can, really
put like a really low premium on their
time and effort and a high premium on
yours. So even if they're going to be
wrong, even if they're going to need to
be corrected later, it's better for them
to push as far as they can before they
ask for feedback. Uh, so that you can
just have a lot of them running in
parallel, even if it's wasteful from
like a per per token standpoint. it's
like saving you a lot of time or letting
you do more things at once. Anyway, so
they try and take everything all the way
to a PR uh not just a PR but also like a
summary that's well I'll get into that
later anyway. So uh uh and then like how
do you take each the results of every
worker who completes something and like
feed it back into the system so that the
system learns and becomes better again
like without the human having to type a
lot of things or doing minimal work so
they can do a lot of these things at
once. Uh and then other pieces like how
do you tag in other teammates? we'll
also get into. Um, but anyway, this is
very much like an RTS where you're like
producing units, trying to move them
around, trying to constantly adapt to
stuff, but also with really high
visibility, not just like spawning 20
agents and like hoping that you'll, you
know, solve this problem for me, make no
mistakes, and it'll just work in the
end, cuz that doesn't actually happen in
production.
Um, so like some general guidelines or
or or practices uh that that that we use
that I use uh at least um but but that
we've we've uh spread through our team
is like trying to run almost everything
including scripts that you run because
sometimes scripts are a lot better and
save on context space than than just
like doing everything by the LLM
obviously but running everything from
the cloud instances always like never
typing anything outside of it if you can
avoid it. Uh having this portability
because a lot of times you start work on
a ticket, you start work on something
and actually the reason you're stuck on
it is cuz someone else on your team or
even maybe another machine. Maybe you're
running it locally on your computer and
then you're like, "Oh like I got
to go home now, but I want this to run
overnight and I make it really easy to
move it elsewhere uh and let other
people pick it up. Uh maybe it needs
more compute to do something. Whatever.
It needs more memory." Um, and uh, and
then also just like always running in
dangerously skip permissions mode like
whenever possible. Uh, if you can't be
running in dangerously skip permissions
mode, do what you need to do to like
make a sandbox so you can, but if you're
having to give feedback at any regular
pace, like you're going to go really
slow. Uh, and then like so what yeah,
what do the workers do? As I mentioned
before, they're always trying to go to
PR. Uh, they are not rigorously adhering
to like the given spec you do. they're
trying to learn and adapt to it as they
go because your specs will be wrong. Uh,
and it's okay for them to make
assumptions because you can correct them
uh as you catch them. Um, and then, you
know, for like, for example, front-end
development doing every everything is
like pre-baked into the worker spawn. So
boot the local dev server, run tests
yourself on it, have it ready and
waiting so that the human can just come
and open a browser tab pointing to the
right port and they can just test the
thing as quickly as possible. Minimizing
the number of human steps that need to
be taken and like clicks to just move
something forward to the next step uh
step. Um and also just like lots of
things baked in that are like what are
things that we know really reliably? the
agent's going to be bad about how do we
learn about those things, bake them in,
put them in uh to not just like the
cloud MD file, but also like broader
reaching graphs that you have of MD
files uh which I'll get to later uh to
make those things
less of a problem. So, for example, one
of like the really obvious things that
Claude is super bad at today is
predicting how long it'll take to do
something. If you ask it like how long
is it going to take to solve this
problem be like a maybe like two weeks
of like you know one engineer's work and
in practice it takes like one prompt and
it can do it in 20 minutes cuz it's
trained on what it would have taken a
human to do those things that's all it's
like basis for training data the these
systems haven't been around long enough
for that to be updated and I think
they'll like always be behind anyway so
you can take all these things and be
like no no never trust yourself in these
ways uh and uh and then also like you
people think a lot and a lot of times
it's kind of true that like the code is
the source of truth but the code is
often like a really expensive source of
truth for the agents to pull context out
of and it's actually really cheap
especially when you have all the context
loaded in memory to like aggressively
document things in a way that benefit
future agents. So uh not just like
writing comments in the code but also
structured linked uh um sort of wiki
style knowledge knowledgebased files
that will make future agents have an
easy time um basically take advantage of
the context as much as you can uh and
also helps the visibility of humans and
and audit auditability of what you do.
Uh, so macro by default, micro win it
counts is another RTS principle. Like
you can't win a game of RT uh like RTS
game usually if you're just really good
at moving your individual units because
if you didn't make any units, you're
just going to lose. Uh so yes, it's
important to like deep dive and tunnel
vision into certain things that are
really critical. Some tickets for sure
take a long time, but anytime you're
like tunnel visioned into something, you
should always be thinking, how do I
spawn as many other little things that
don't take my cognitive bandwidth as
much and just like move those things
forward? Um, so that always you're
basically like maxing out your cognitive
capacity. Um, and again, like things can
wait. You can come back to them like 3
days later. It's not that expensive and
you can just ask Claude like remind me
what the hell I was doing with this
thing. All this stuff is really cheap.
what's expensive but doesn't feel
expensive is like not doing these things
at the same time. Um anyway, so macro
necessary, micro useful, but you can win
honestly in RTS games and I think in a
lot of things, including in programming,
if you just macro enough, if you just do
enough things, you'll kind of uh
stupidly adjust your way towards
something that's good if you're just
always really quickly identifying
problems and solving them. Um and yeah,
this is gets back to like the high
visibility thing. So, one of the things
that I really like about you like how I
set things up is it's not like a lot of
agents that are kind of tucked away and
that you have to like dig in hard to
actually read what their ongoing stream
is and what they're actually doing like
like in an RTS game like you click
buttons to immediately jump to different
key points in the map so you can always
be auditing stuff and always like catch
it and correct it quickly if it's a
critical thing. That true I that too I
find is like super useful in
programming. Uh because again like
they're going to make mistakes all the
time. They're going to like go in wrong
directions and you definitely save time
and value if you catch them early, fix
them, course correct. Uh so you should
be kind of like looking around between
your different agents, monitoring them
while you are also trying to have as
many as you can. Um another thing to
this point that I personally like a lot
uh and is like a big thing in RTS games
is audio. So, like the only way that you
can manage a big army across the whole
map is to have lots of audio cues where
it's like your base is under attack or
you know this guy's moving or whatever
thing is happening. You don't have to be
looking at you can hear and it's like
okay I need to put my attention to
this thing and you know based on like a
lot of variety these audio cues that you
can learn and they're good like
pneumatic devices. Uh what's important?
What do I need to act on right away?
What don't I? So, like the way I run my
personal setup is I actually have all of
my individual agent uh like T-M sessions
mapped to different Warcraft and
Starcraft units uh that are colorcoded
and themed based on the type of ticket
it is. And then they play the actual
sound effects from Warcraft and
Starcraft units. So, I immediately know
and like visually identify. I don't even
have to read like this tab needs my
attention. This thing's going on.
Anyway, like to me it just seems like a
natural way of like take advantage of
these and and again like Cludes made all
these things for me really quickly as
like a side ticket that I was working on
over time while I worked on eight other
things. So it's like why not do these
things and these these devices pneumatic
devices uh or or whatever like cues for
people are really optimized in gaming
and they like know what good sound
design is to like be memorable and
otherwise catch your attention in
different ways. Um, yeah, and like cult
use of color, icons, anything that's
just like quicker to read and process
because I actually do think like these
things matter a lot, especially if
you're trying to uh really aggressively
get a lot of stuff done and the sky is
kind of the limit in how you can do that
stuff. Another thing we built internally
is like an APM tracker. Uh, and I'll
just show quickly here. Um,
so and this this is Warcraft 3, which is
like one of the lower APM requiring
professional RTS games, but this is what
it looks like to actually play this game
well uh at the at the top level. And one
of the things that you'll notice is like
no APM is not the uh the thing that like
if you max it, you're the best player in
the world, but nobody is good who
doesn't have high APM. And so you can
just kind of take that as a mental
rubric like if I'm like thinking
and like typing slowly and like am I if
this was a competition, would I really
be the best? Like do I really need to
take that much time in everything I'm
doing? and how much can I just take like
lots of little micro decisions and you
know fall toward the right uh the right
goal or toward making things better. Um
anyway, so this is just something like
we we you know each of us run like
personally on our computers and keep an
eye on and it's just like just keep
track of like are things moving and this
this APM is not like clicks you have
because I don't think that's like a
great tracker for for for agent use. We
use tool you tool calls. It's like how
many tool calls are your agents doing
per minute? Uh this minute, this five
minutes, this hour, this day, this seven
days, like how do you max all those
things and have high numbers. Um and
again, it's like it's it's one metric
among many, but it's how are you
actually being really productive or are
you really doing the most you could be
doing if you have a low APM? Uh probably
not. So otherwise like things probably a
lot of people know uh easy way to to use
tokens more effectively is just like do
a lot of things in parallel do different
things with the same agent do different
agents in parallel it will uh invariably
like for complex tasks usually give you
a better outcome than if you did it by
yourself and just like in an RTS like
you should be spending your resources
you should never have your claude tokens
like sitting unused that's really
inefficient economy like use them all
every hour period that you man. Um,
knowledge base. This is like a really
big thing that that for us I think is
still like somewhat early on. But, uh,
this whole presentation I made and
started the exact same way that, uh, I'm
just describing how I do tickets, which
is I went to Claude, I took what France
asked me to talk about, I pasted it in,
I said, "Look at our knowledge base and
how we do stuff." And put together a
PowerPoint presentation based on the
philosophies embedded in there and like
what I've told you before. and he didn't
like oneshot it, but it's like
I maybe did like 15 edits to it, you
know, and and got to this presentation.
Uh, and then I refed it all back into
the knowledge base and said like learn
everything that I've said and all the
the the advice I've given and
corrections I've given and like make
those better instilled in the knowledge
base. And this knowledge base is
basically just because like linked docs
are much faster diverse by LLMs. And so
uh and you can encode everything
including business knowledge and indeed
like Claude and and Codex are really
good at coming up with features and
stuff if they have enough knowledge
about your business. Uh so trying to
build this up in an automated way is
super useful. People come up with their
own tickets. Uh because if you have
something you could do everybody you
should just like do it. Everybody should
be full stack all the time. Uh be
reactive. Uh and uh even if agent does
it way worse than you or slower than
you, it's still better to have it do it.
And uh it's easy to change things when
they're screwed up. Satisficing is a
word from economics is like do things
satisfi like enough but not perfect. Uh
really really key principle for like
everything. Uh mix different ticket
sizes at the same time. Uh you know in
like we we've three and a halfx our
output uh PRs per engineer per month. uh
both because LM have made ourselves
better, but like when we like really
adopted this stuff broadly with everyone
on the team this last month, we grew
another 60% in our PRs per engineer per
month. So like you're not going to get a
lot smarter, but the thing you can train
on yourself is like how do I act like
people who are good at doing these kinds
of things really well like RTS pro
players? What does it look like to be
like optimal in this and how can I learn
the methods of doing it just like
program like an RTS pro? Thank you.
Okay, I think that's all we have. Um,
now I think Vikica, we have cookies, ice
cream, and popsicles and mochi donuts.
Okay, what is a mochi donut? It's
delicious. Okay. Um, yeah. So, thank you
guys so much for coming. It was a lot of
fun. Uh, I will send out a feedback
form. Please review it and give me give
me back your thoughts. um think about
those uh call for presentations and
calls for ideas. If you guys have ideas,
let's let's definitely hear them. Um and
uh looking for more papers coming up
probably in in two weeks. I think we're
already fully slated. Um and then
basically the first one in July uh you
know, we're looking to fill out as well.
So if you wanted to present, please let
me know. That's all I got. Thank you
everyone.