Title: The GPT Moment for Robotics Is Here
Video ID: 4EsUaur0nsQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EsUaur0nsQ
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-04-16T14:00:07Z
Duration: PT49M27S
Views: 66542
Likes: 1398
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1386

Description:
Physical Intelligence is building a foundation model that can control any robot to do any task — what the team describes as the GPT-1 moment for robotics. The company's cross-embodiment approach trains across many different robot platforms, and recent results show tasks being performed zero-shot that last year required hundreds of hours of data collection.

In this episode of The Lightcone, co-founder Quan Vuong sat down with Garry, Jared, Diana, and Harj to talk about why robotics is finally re

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

The equation, I think, for
starting a robotic business has changed
and will continue to change at an
accelerating pace because the upfront
cost is not that high anymore.
Everyone's sort of spending a lot of
time in the digital world, and it feels
like you're now is the time to start
thinking about the world of atoms. You
literally just gave people the playbook
for how to build a vertical robotics
company. This has really been our
mission from the start is to create that
Cambrian explosion. It still like blows
my mind. I didn't know if this would
exist even in my entire lifetime.
Welcome back to another episode of The
Light Cone. Today, we have a very
special guest, Quang Vinh. He's one of
the co-founders of Physical
Intelligence, which we think might be
the robotics AI lab that brings about
the GPT-1 moment for all of robotics.
Quang, thank you for joining us.
Pleasure to be here. Has been a long
time admirer of YC. And our mission is
to build a model that can control any
robot to do any task that is physically
capable of and to do so as such a high
level of performance that's going to be
useful to people in all walks of life.
And so, GPT-1 for robotics, you know,
what is it? You know, is the chat GPT
moment for robotics real? Our
perspective here is that, um, we want to
build a model that's really intelligent.
We want to build a platform that allow
us to externalize that intelligence to
the rest of world and allow them to use
it to build very interesting application
in all sorts of vertical in robotics.
And we think that it's going to be more
like a peeling an onions analogy where
you start from a really strong base
model that have all sorts of common
sense knowledge and already works to
some extent on your robot. Um, you have
then a mixed autonomy system, uh, very
similar, for example, to a autonomous
driving car today. Um and then you
actually deploy the system to do a real
job. That system might make mistake. Um
it's okay.
Um and then, over time, by actually
exposing the system to the complexity
and the edge case of the real world,
that system get incrementally, even just
slightly better over time every day. Um
and you know, one day you wake up and
you suddenly have a system that is just
fully autonomous and just provide
tremendous value. Might be helpful to
give the audience a bit of a mini
history lesson on why robotics is so
hard. And there's been a lot of
breakthroughs in the last 2 years. And I
mean, just to simplify the robotics
problem is three pillars: semantics,
which I think we got a lot of unlocks
and with language models that somehow we
poured it into robotics. Then you have
the planning. And then the last thing is
control, which needs to be done in real
time and interact with a environment
that changes. Walk us through the
seminal papers that a lot of the team of
Pi Robotics published that gave you the
inkling that the GPT-1 moment is near.
And that started in 2024. Yeah. So, the
dream to build general-purpose
robot-like robots has been a long-time
dream. I I think in humanity. Like, you
know, we're not the first to say that
our mission is to build a model that can
work on any robot. Um and we're really
fortunate to be in this moment in time
in history where we feel that it's
possible to kind of walk back a little
bit um a few years before there was, I
think, the first is SayCan, which to me
was the first demonstration of language
model and how you can bring all of the
common sense knowledge in language model
into robotics. And therefore, that
significantly kind of reduces the need
to collect robot-specific data. So, for
example, if you have a task of, "Oh, I
want to go to the YC office to record a
podcast. You know, what are the steps I
need to take?" You can ask the language
model, you know, just show me the steps
and show me the plan. Um, and that
worked incredibly well. Um, and then the
way you kind of language model
infiltrate, if you will, in robotic is
it start at the planning level, uh, at
the semantic level. And then, but
there's still the control problem, you
know, at the end of the day, you still
need a mechanism to convert the plan
into low-level action that can actually
actuate the robot. And that bring us to
Palm-E and that bring us to RT-2, which
stands for Robotic Transformer 2. And
what this two work really show is that
if you start from a vision language
model that is really powerful and you
kind of use robotic data to
adapt this model to speak robot
language, if you will, um, then you see
a lot of transfer from the kind of
knowledge that exists in the language
model in the vision language model down
to the low-level action. Like, um, one
of my favorite example when we did the
RT-2 project was you can have picture of
celebrity on the table. You have picture
of Taylor Swift, you have a picture of
the Queen of England, and you can ask
the robot, you know,
pick up the Coke can and move it to
Taylor Swift, even though the concept of
Taylor Swift is just doesn't
exist in the robot data at all, and that
worked. You can do other examples such
as, um, kind of spatial reasoning that
doesn't exist in the robot data at all.
Like, for example, move the dinosaurs
next to the red like red car, and these
are like all just completely unseen
object in robot data. And so, that was
RT-2 and that was Palm-E. Now, RT-2 and
Palm-E are single embodiment, um,
exercise. Which just for the audience,
single embodiment meaning it worked for
a very specific robot.
>> It worked for a very specific robot. In
robotic, you can ask the question, how
do you scale? Um, especially how do you
scale data collections? And one of the
insight that we had back then was, you
know, maybe the data from one robot is
not that different from another robots
anyway. If you have enough robots in
your training data, maybe what the model
learn isn't to control one specific
robot. The what the model learn is
something that's more abstract, which is
how do I kind of learn a general notion
of what it means to control any
particular robotic platform. And
therefore, I would be better at
controlling any particular platform. And
that bring us to what we call uh open
cross embodiment and robotic transformer
X. That was a big paper because it was
the first that showed potential scaling
laws that applied to robotics because
now you could start training all these
models across multiple kinds of
hardware, not just one, which has never
been done in robotics ever before.
Because from all the research labs, they
would all train with a very specific set
of sensor actuators and motors, and it
was all very finicky with that
particular hardware, right? Yeah. One of
the really interesting result from um
open cross embodiment, and let me
provide the context here, is that you
can take, let's say, 10 different robot
platform, collect data from them, train
a policy, and really optimize the policy
to work well on that platform. Um so,
let's say, you know, you have that, you
have 10 different platform, 10 different
policies. And now, if you simply take
the data
and absorb it into a model that is high
capacity enough to really absorb that
data, and you can compare that you have
this generalist, right, that the learn
to control how to take the 10 different
robot. You can compare it to the
specialist that has been optimized to
work well on a particular embodiment.
How does it compare? And the the it's
interesting result from open X is it was
50% better. Wow. Um and that was really
surprising because in robotics, it's
hard enough to get your model to work on
one particular robot platform. And one
of the reason why I say that we're
really fortunate to be in this moment in
time in robotics is because open act was
really
only possible because of the support
that we received from the robotic
community. It was a huge collaboration
across the robotic community and
the reason why that's really important
is there is this joke in like robotic
grad school that you know, if you want
to add two years to your PhD just work
on any robot platform.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, by that logic if you want to
have 10 robot platform that's 10 years
and like
>> Why is that it takes like a year or two
to just get the platform up and running
to even collect the data? Yeah. Is it
fair to say that the data set that was
created from Embodiment X is similar to
the scale of an impact that ImageNet did
for vision because it was huge and it
was the first large data set across
multiple hardware, huge collaboration
and I still think that ImageNet was more
impactful in the vision community and
the reason for that is a few. The first
is that ImageNet also allowed for
reproducible
right? You know, Open X as an effort was
more about making data available for
kind of people to use and evaluation is
a really difficult problems in robotic
that Open X did not solve
and the second is I think Open X
is a drop in the bucket at this point in
the robotic community.
If you measure in the kind of the scale
and the volume and the diversity of data
that
the community is collecting I think Open
X at this point it's a drop in the
bucket. I mean I guess we started
talking about sort of GP1 but even GP1
you know, that was sort of this moment
where you can prove you Alec Radford
figured out that there was a neuron
based on a very specific input and
output
and then that allowed the scaling laws
to sort of take hold. The biggest
problem in robotics I've heard is
basically actually exactly what we've
been talking about is just like it's the
data problem. You know, language you
could bootstrap off of like
you know, the sum total of what you
could get off the internet, which is
actually quite a lot. Can you give us
like a sense for um like scale? Is it
like petabytes? Like you know, what do
you think is necessary as an input to
you know, the true GPT-1 of robotics?
Yeah. So, the data scarcity problem in
robotic there's a few way to look at it.
The first way is that it's really two
problem in this guys. There is the
generation data generation problem and
there's data capture problem. The
difference is that data capture is that
there might already be lots of robotic
data that is being generated, but
there's just never been really an
incentive to capture it to make it easy
for digestions in training.
Um and that's one of the goal that Open
X was trying to solve, which is if you
have robotic data, it's a really good
idea to capture it and make it possible
to train on. The second way to look at
it is that robotic is very different
from language model. There is not a
internet of robotic data that you can
use. And so you see these kind of very
operationally heavy effort to collect
data. And there's the question of is it
going to scale? Well, the way that I
look at it is let's take the US GDP, 24
trillion US dollars. Let's say if we
actually solve robotics, a model that
can
control any robot to do any task. Napkin
math maybe will contribute 10% to US
GDP. Well, that's already a massive
number. Um and I I think that promise is
one of the reason that warrants the
investment into data collections um in
robotics. And the third way to look at
it is we're very focused on cross
embodiment. And cross embodiment, there
is the data collection aspect of as
well, which is to really make sure that
your model and your organizations and
infrastructure are set up to consume
data from many different sources of
uh of robots. And that actually allow
you to scale easier. For example, I if I
were to contrast our approach compared
to let's say a company that have a
particular hardware platform that they
optimize for and they scale, um it it's
not an approach that have really allowed
people to scale um because
it's just much harder to figure out how
do you manufacture like
a thousand unit of something for now
compared to making sure that you
yourself are ready to absorb data from
like a thousand different types of robot
that are already in there in the
community. I mean, it's a crazy problem,
isn't it? I mean, the hardware itself,
even within the same design of
embodiment, if there's a hardware run
that goes awry or like one of the servos
is slightly different, like you see it
in the data, right? And then how do you
control for that? Yeah, so I think we
were doing kind of like an inventory of
robot in the company and we were so
shocked to find that there are no robot
no two robot platform that are the same.
And if you ask people in the robot
community, sometimes there is debate
about multi-robot versus single robot.
And the argument is that, you know,
single robot is simpler to scale. And
actually, that's not how it plays out in
practice. Like how it plays out in
practice is even if you have a single
robot that you're optimizing for, over
time that platform is going to drift.
You know, maybe you want to make
hardware change or you have software
change. You end up in a situation where
it's much harder for you to reuse old
data because, you know, in machine
learning, if you want to generalize from
a distribution, you would like many
samples from that distribution. And if
you just have one robot platform that
have a major change every 3 months,
maybe you have a few data points from
that distribution. Um whereas if you
start from the hypothesis that if you
have many robot platform in your fleet,
your model is going to learn something
more abstract, which is how do I control
a robot, not any particular robot, then
the model will be able to ingest data
from, you know, a slightly different
robot better. Yeah. And actually, we're
starting to see emergent property in
this kind of robot large foundation
model
>> That's good news. what we're doing,
where you start to see like interesting
transfer between different
data sources. For example, today it's
possible to perform tasks zero shot.
Zero shot meaning you don't collect any
data. And these are the tasks that last
year might have required like hundreds
and hundreds of hours. What are some
examples? Yeah, do we have any videos we
can see that like show it? Um I get my
some flak when I come back because this
is not published results. Hopefully this
will come out soon. So, you know, I want
to reserve the excitement for that and
I'm like building up the the the the the
excitement a little bit.
So, hopefully this will come out soon.
These are not simple tasks. These are
like actually difficult tasks that just
last year required like hundreds of
hours of data collections. You hear here
on LightCone first that there's some
emergent properties that are going to
come out of PaLM-E. Can you give us a
sense of like the flavor of the task?
>> It's really easy to fool yourself. And
so, we wanted to test across like
few different tasks of different flavor.
A task that require precision, task that
require reasoning with multiple objects
in the scene. It all seems to have this
property that's really nice. So, it does
seems like that's something that's kind
of a more general property that emerge
rather than we just, you know, got lucky
and suddenly the model start working on
one particular task. Could you help us
understand where we are now in terms of
like what's working and how well it's
working? Like if we're not quite at the
ChatGPT moment yet, like where are we?
And I think you brought some videos that
you were going to show us to like help
everybody visualize what the current
state of the art actually looks like. I
think where we are is I think if you
have a task where it's okay for the
robot to make a mistake,
and it's possible for you to set up a
mixed autonomy system where you have a
person that takes over when the robot
make a mistake and provide corrections,
It is possible to
get to a level of performance where it
start to make sense to think about
scaling robot deployment. And the
example that I specifically want to
highlight here is this blog post that we
did with Weave and Ultra. And
you know, it's great that these are
both YC company. I want to provide a
little bit of context here first. The
context is that Pi is a primarily
research organization. We want to focus
on building the best model. Um but we
also want to not be tunnel vision. We
want to make sure that the model that we
built actually going to be useful and
actually perform tasks that people in
society cares about. And one of the
really good way for us to do so is to
partner really closely with company that
want to get robot out there today. And
the way that this relationship work is
that we treat each other like we're on
the same team. Very free flow of
information. Um and we
design a system that
try to get the best possible performance
for the task that these company care
about. So, let me talk about Weave
first. What you're seeing in this video
is a system that we built together
folding really diverse item of laundry
in a real laundromat in the mission. You
can see, you know, people walking
outside. And why this task is difficult
is because there's just infinite
possibility of
observation space. Like, you know, um
clothing are deformable and no two item
of clothing here are the same. And these
are also unseen. You know, these are not
like clothing item that are seen in the
training data. Yeah, I love this team.
They are some of the most cracked people
out of Apple I've ever met. Gary was the
partner here with Weave.
I want to like explain like what Weave
is and what their like what their like
company is. Yeah, I mean, they're
actually you know, shipping their first
robots into the home. We sort of talked
about it as, you know, being able to do
household tasks like this and I think
they were very inspired by physical
intelligence's first demos with
with laundry folding. So, it's actually
a total trip to hear about it and you
know, a year ago we were talking about
them doing it and then now to see them
do it working in hand in hand with you
is really awesome. I think this is a
great example of like
you know, you need the model smarts, you
need the data collection and then the
hardware and
you sort of system integration all
working together is just hard to nail.
So, Yeah, and to get back to your
question about why robotic is hard, it
really it is a really hard system
problems.
Like you need everything to work well
and work well together to get this
result and like we were such an
incredible team for us to to to work
with to get this result. And it actually
didn't even take us that long to get
this result. It was roughly
we set a goal and maybe it was like 2
weeks afterwards where we got got a
model that was I got a model and a
system that was good enough at
performing this task.
>> It still like blows my mind to see a
robot actually folding laundry because I
remember until basically until chat GPT,
I didn't know if this would exist even
in my entire lifetime. Cuz like folding
laundry, I mean it's it's always been
like the Turing test for robotics
because there's no way to like
deterministically program a system the
way that you did like pre-AI to do this
cuz the space is like so infinite and
like we've shown that it's possible for
us to do like basically if a robot can
do this, like robots will be able to do
everything. It's only a matter of like
improving it from here.
>> There was a funny story where
when we first published Pi Zero, people
thought of us as the laundry company.
>> [laughter]
>> Because the demo was just focused on
laundry and actually picking home tasks,
especially tasks that has to do with
deformable object is a very intentional
choice on our end. We're not just after
the home, we really want to make it
broadly applicable, but picking home
tasks for us to start with has a few
benefits like one is relatable. You
know, you can see the laundry folding
demo and you can kind of like grok how
this is going to be useful and you can
get a sense of why it's hard. And the
second is that it's really easy to set
up to test generalization. Can you talk
about Ultra which is your company,
Jared? A demo of it. Yeah, this is
Ultra. The thing that I love about this
video is you see you know, it's bright
outside
and you see this is 4x speed and it's a
100 minutes. If I scroll to the end
the sun has set. Oh, wow.
That was one of the big problems in
robotics where it would be so sensitive
to the environment in lighting and mess
up the vision system, the semantics and
the part of it. Yeah, and the
interesting
thing here is that it is possible to get
to the level of autonomy that
the robot is just performing the task.
This is autonomy at scale. Like this is
ready to be scaled. Quan, because this
task is less familiar than laundry
folding, do you want to explain what the
robot is doing here and what Ultra is
like doing as a company? Ultra is a
company that want to make it really easy
to adapt robot to, you know, new task.
And right now they're focusing on
logistics space, which is really
important because you know, there's lots
of labor shortage in logistic. And the
task that we focus on together here is
you know, if you order an item from
Amazon, you sometimes get this soft
pouch that item gets shipped from. And
the task here is you have a tray of
these items here and the robot is
supposed to pick one of them at a time
and place it inside this pouch. The
machine would enclose it and then pick
up the pouch and put it on the left here
to be ready for shipping. Now, this
heart is hard because there are many
different types of object that can be in
this tray and the opening here is
actually very narrow. So, you see this
interesting example of the robot kind of
nudging the item to go into the pouch.
And that's that's really hard. Like that
require
very good understanding of the scene and
like very precise motion to nudge the
object into the pouch. Um the other
thing that's hard about this task is the
level of autonomy that's required. Like
this is running for an entire day. There
is still human intervention, I want to
say, in
um this like full-day operation. Um but
the level of intervention is actually
quite minimal. This is not just like
some like demo station, right? This is
actually recorded in an actual
e-commerce warehouse where they're
actually shipping real products to real
customers. This isn't just like a like a
lab. This is packaging real customer
real order for customer to be shipped
out in a real warehouse. So this is real
operations. So I think this is really
cool because I think when people think
about robots, they tend to think of the
consumer use cases like we've cuz that's
you know what we're familiar with in our
daily life. What I find really
interesting is that there's like a
million applications like this ultra
thing that you wouldn't think of as
obviously like oh, who packs the like
soft pouch of things that you get from
like Amazon? Well, there's some person
like who does that and this is like a
job that we can now build a robot to do.
The interesting thing about the approach
is that
you're converting it from a very
difficult engineering problem into a
operation problems of how do I identify
the use case and how do I collect the
right data, which is in some sense more
scalable because you can build the
system that allow you to collect data
from any different task. So you know it
is it's not a problem of how do I scale
data collection rather than you know,
for every new task, how do I design a
really difficult engineering system to
solve it? YC Startup School is back.
We're hand-selecting the most promising
builders in the world and flying them
out to San Francisco for July 25th and
26th to discuss the cutting-edge of
tech. Apply now for a spot. Okay, back
to the video. I think one thing that the
audience may not know is that you have a
very unique technical insight that in
the past robotics folks would have kind
of gasped and be shocked because robots
need to run in real time. A lot of times
all of the compute runs in on device,
but you guys have done something very
different. Can you tell us more about
that so that this works in
in in real time with large models and
and really well. So, the context here is
that we know we talked to many companies
that would like to deploy robots and one
of the first question we get is what
compute units should we get on the
robot? You know, it's expensive. It's
going to increase the bomb cost and
they're worried that it's going to go
out of fashion very quickly because the
model change, the model gets bigger. How
do I make sure that the hardware that
I'm going to commit to today is going to
be viable for, you know, a couple of
years? It's very difficult questions.
People often really surprised when I
tell them that almost all of the robot
evaluation that we run at Pi today
including the really complicated demo
that we have shown making coffee,
folding laundry, mobile robots
navigating around. The model actually
hosted in the cloud. Um, and you know,
this is not like a cloud isn't a server
in the office. It's a real cloud. The
model is hosted in a data center
somewhere and within this high-frequency
control loop that um, is controlling the
robot, the robot is actually querying an
API endpoint that hosts the model,
sending it images and language command
and getting back action that then
executed directly on the robot. And this
is surprising because of precisely the
reason that you mentioned, you know, how
do you actually make it work? This is
why it's really important for Pi to
couple
system, hardware, and model development,
and research like very tightly to
together because like it allows us to
solve all these problems. So, for
example, one of the insight that we have
here is that you can actually bury the
inference time within the robot control
loop because, you know, if
I'm a robot, I have enough action for me
to execute for the next 100
milliseconds. Like there's no reason for
me to wait until I finish executing that
action to ask my model for a different
action. You know, I can do it as fast as
um inference
essentially. Um and so, you know, maybe
when I only have 50 milliseconds of
action worth left, I can ask for the
next sets of action. And when the
current 50 milliseconds is over, like I
have something that's ready for me to
continue with, you know, my next 100
milliseconds. Um so, that's one of the
inside. The other uh kind of algorithmic
improvement um
we we refer to them as real-time
chunking. Design inference in such a way
that you know there's going to be a
delay
in how long it takes to query the model
on the cloud, basically. Like the
problem here, if I get uh a little bit
more technical, is an action chunk is a
sequence of action that I can ex- ecute
on the robot. So, you know, it's not
just one action. And if I have an action
chunk that I can execute for another 100
milliseconds, and 50 milliseconds in, I
want to predict another action chunk.
And I'm going to transition to that new
action chunk after my current 50
milliseconds is over, how do I make sure
the two are consistent? Like, you know,
how do I make sure that if I'm moving
this way,
>> Mhm. the next action chunk is going to
continue me to allow me to continue to
be smoothly moving this way. You can
precompute. Yeah, you can precompute.
And like that's one of the algorithmic
improvement that we'll make to make
inference
using model hosted in the cloud
possible. I studied computer
engineering, so I'm not really a an
algorithms person. But when it comes to
systems like that, like pipelining, like
get me all over that. That sounds great.
>> [laughter]
>> That's so interesting. I mean, this
simplifies It's kind of It's a brilliant
choice because it simplifies so much of
the system for the robots. You don't
need all these clunky, I don't know,
people have two operating systems at
sometimes for for robots, embedded RTOS,
and then the regular one and all these
complex
giant compute and power and this is what
the initial versions of a Waymo used to
run basically a server on the trunk and
you can't afford to do that with general
day robotics which is brilliant that you
figure out how to do it.
>> Yeah, you don't have to. I mean, you can
do things some of it obviously has to be
some compute there but a lot of the
compute can happen elsewhere and then is
there there must be a video like this
this thing that we're looking at in the
top left like how much of that is sort
of like video feedback, how much of it
is like local processed? I mean Yeah, is
there any computer locally on this robot
or is it just like a dumb like video
camera that streams data to the cloud?
For this I am
not 100% sure but I am inclined to
believe that it's just a dumb computer.
Like for this specific video I don't
remember but I'm just 100% confident
that we can make this work with a dumb
computer on the robot. And the one other
interesting thing about our
collaboration with Weaven Ultra is one
I've never seen that robot in person. Oh
wow. Um two is I have very little idea
about how the robot actually works.
Interesting. Um and that's a very
intentional choice. I want to stay away
from from that as far as possible. I
also don't know how they collect data.
Like I intentionally don't ask them this
question to understand whether it's
possible for an organization like Pi to
parachute into their existing system and
to work really closely with them on the
thing that actually matters to get the
system to work and not have to learn
about how they set up their system
because in a way that's like a more
scalable recipe. Yeah, you completely
decouple a lot of the hardware control
loop choices from the from the semantics
and planning which is just works. Just
brilliant. Yeah, it I mean I'm really
surprised. It works. And when when we
start the company we thought that real
deployment is going to be a it's only
going to be in the conversation like 5
years
into the life of the company cuz the
problem is just really hard. And we're 2
years in and you know, this is the
result that we we have and and real like
deployment and scaling the number of
robot is a really serious consideration
today. And so the pace of progress has
just been very pleasantly much faster
than we expected originally. Often on
this podcast, we talk about like what
all this means for startup founders. I I
think that might be an interesting
question for us to explore here. So, if
you imagine someone was listening to
this podcast, maybe they're like a
college student that's studying computer
science and they think robots are really
cool and they want to do something like
this. How should they get started and
what are the skills that they need? Do
they need to be a mechanical engineer to
be able to build a robot like this? Can
they just buy an off-the-shelf like
robot arm and camera system and like
what And load Pi and Yeah, you're off
and running. Yeah.
Before I actually answer your question,
let me provide a few more context. The
first is that robotic is traditionally
really hard because it's an extremely
vertically integrated business. You need
to have your own customer relationship,
your own hardware, your own autonomy
stack, your own safety certification,
your own everything. And the barrier to
entry
is just really high because of that. And
one of the thing that we're trying to
change is that we're trying to provide a
foundation of physical intelligence that
the community can build on top of that
allow them to onboard autonomy onto the
robot and the task much quicker than
before. So, that's the first, you know,
we want to provide that
kind of seed of intelligence that allow
people to move much faster so that they
can, you know, focus on other problems.
Um the second thing is that
the I think the recipe for starting a
vertical robotic business today is one,
have a really good understanding of the
existing workflow because the robot
system needs to fit into existing
workflow. And the second is to be very
meticulous about identifying where the
opportunity is. You know, if there is a
workflow that need X number of work
today, you know, where is the robot when
you insert it's going to make the
biggest difference. And two is to really
be scrappy when it comes to hardware and
data collections. You don't need a
incredibly expensive robot that is
capable of very precise motion today to
be able to do this task. And the reason
why why is this why is this model really
reactive? And so they can compensate for
some of the in accuracy in the actual
robot movement. And to
ensure that you have the ability to
collect data and to run evaluation,
especially evaluation in real
deployment. The next step after that is
to get a mixed autonomous system that
allow you to get to the point where it's
break even. Like break even
economically. Break even economically.
Because the reason why that's important
is because it allow you to then scale
the number of robot. Because if you lose
money on every robot, it's very hard to
scale. That has been historically one of
the biggest challenges for robotic
companies that they grow into growth
stage is just the payback period is just
doesn't make sense. Yeah, so the
equation I think for
starting a robotic business um
has changed and will continue to change
at an accelerating pace because the
upfront cost is not that high anymore.
And now, you know, what is the upfront
cost? The upfront cost is
much cheaper hardware, ability to
collect data, ability to collect um
evaluation,
and ability to kind of like understand
the use case to see where they should
insert the robot. You know, it's not
about having incredibly expensive
hardware, it's not about having your own
proprietary, I think autonomy classical
uh stack anymore to be able to do this
task. Um and so it it allow company to
focus on the component that will
actually allow them to differentiate
themselves from the rest of the space.
Now that you sort of unbundled it and
you no longer need to build this fully
vertically integrated company in order
to build a robotics company, are we on
the precipice of a Cambrian explosion of
vertical robotics companies where
there's going to be like a thousand
companies like Ultra going after, you
know, every like menial job in the
economy and like getting a deep
understanding of the customer, building
a robot that can solve that problem,
doing a like mixed human
machine deployment until it like can run
fully autonomously and building a
company in in every sector. Is that is
is that the future that you see people
building on top of Pi? It's funny that
you mentioned Cambrian explosion because
when we wrote this blog post, there was
that term that was very kind of like
hotly debated. We are, I think,
academics at heart and we want to be
kind of very mature
when we communicate, but, you know,
myself personally, I believe there's
going to be a Cambrian explosion of um
robotic company across the entire world
and across many, many different vertical
um just because it's just so much
cheaper to build and it doesn't require
um you know, someone with 20 years of
experience in robotic to start anymore.
You know, it require someone that is
really scrappy, that can move really
quickly, um can do the system
integration, um can understand customer
what they want to start the deployment.
I mean, what's coming up for me is
obviously we work with a lot of robotics
companies and we meet a lot of founders
and it feels like there's this
continuum. Um one is
to use an analogy to compute, you know,
personal computing. You could argue that
industrial robotics today is basically
like mainframe or mini computer level.
Like, you know, if you look back in the
70s, huge public companies like Digital
Computer that, you know, just did like
these sort of very, very expensive
deployments, but like they were very,
very specialized and it was all extreme
enterprise. Like, you know, the idea of
a personal computer was ridiculous,
right? You know, it took the Altair and
then Apple 1 and Apple 2 and then IBM PC
XT to like create personal computing.
And then like the traditional advice for
robotics for many years is like go after
like dirty and dangerous.
And then of course those are sort of the
industrial cases. Like you you know, you
have these giant Tesla robots in the
gigafactory and things like that. It
feels like what you said around
profitability is really really big. So,
you know, does that mean that
the people who do the vertical robot
Cambrian explosion sort of moment uh the
people who are sort of first in that
like it sounds like
they would be the first to be profitable
and not dirty and dangerous. I think
this is already happening today. I think
um we have the fortune of having lots of
visibility into the our community
because um you know, people would like
to talk to us. People would like to
learn you know, what it's like to build
a foundational model for robotics and
people would like to know how do I get
the same level of autonomy. And there's
so many companies and businesses that we
talk to that would love to put a robot
into their space that you know, it's
okay for the robot to make a mistake and
this is needed so much. I really believe
that res- the the recipe that I
mentioned earlier of identify where the
robot can fit in, focus on cheaper
hardware, collect data, run evaluation,
mix autonomy, break even, scale robots
will work across many different
vertical. And I'm seeing it play out
today and it's just incredibly exciting
to see. And this is pretty cool that you
literally just gave people the playbook
for how to build a vertical robotics
company. Like this is a playbook that
could possibly be followed successfully
hundreds or thousands of times. And the
reason why I want to mention it is
because I I do want to see that Cambrian
Cambrian explosions and we want to help
enable it. You know, for Pi, if if we
talk about why Pi is going to fail, it's
probably going to be because the problem
is just way too hard. You know, maybe it
take 50 more years to solve the robotic
problem and you know, not
couple of years, 5 10. Um and so we want
to enable the community. We want to
accelerate progress and that's why we're
very open that we publish our research.
We open source Pi zero and Pi 05 and
people were so shocked when they asked
me, you know, is there any difference
between Pi zero and Pi 05 that you open
source versus the model that we use
internally Pi zero and Pi 05 and the
answer was actually no, it's the same
model. Like the
pre-trained model weights that you're
using
that we open source is also the
pre-trained model weights that we
research internally use for Pi zero and
Pi 05 and so we really want to help
accelerate progress in the community um
and to create that Cambrian explosions.
Yeah, that's very inspiring. I mean, I
feel like that's
uh everyone's sort of spending a lot of
time in the digital world and it feels
like you now is the time to start
thinking about you the the world of
atoms and uh this is sort of the perfect
mix of actually like, you know, how do
you take electrons and turn it into
abundance in the you know, atoms world
and I think about Dario Amadei's essay
um all watched over by machines of
loving grace and when you really think
about the perfect manifestation of that,
it's not like, you know, perfect uh
agents that look over you just like in
the electronic world. It's you know,
actually something a little bit more
akin to
what we're seeing here. Yeah. And
this has really been our mission from
the start is to create that Cambrian
explosion um and you know, this is why
we choose to focus on the model because
we believe that is the bottleneck to
just really make robot useful across
many different different tasks in the
world And that's what we also focus on
cross embodiment. You know, success for
us is not defined as only our model on
our robot performing tasks that is
useful. The the surface area for success
is actually much larger, which is our
model performing really useful tasks on
somebody else's robot out there. Maybe
that we we don't even know what that
robot is like in a way that's like
useful to the end consumer. Could we
maybe talk a little bit about um like
the humans behind the robots here? Take
that.
How did the company get started? Like
who are the who are your co-founders?
How did you all get together? And what
skills do you each bring to such a
complex problem? Sometimes the joke I
make here is that the human behind the
robots are also robots. Not not
[laughter] really. Um yeah, so Pi is a
very, I would say, untraditional
company. We have a
like larger than average founding teams.
And some of us work really closely
together when we were at the robotic
team at Google. And the robotics team at
Google was I think a really, really
great environment for seeing the sign of
life and creating the relationships and
the community that allow the robotic
community and like these advances to
flourish. There is Lucky, uh which
we met when we uh were thinking about
starting the company and he's just been
really instrumental in making sure that
we're a good business.
And there is Adnan, our hardware lead,
um that came over from Anduril. And
Adnan has a really difficult job because
if you want to work on cross embodiment,
you know, remember my uh joke about how
if you want to add 2 years to your grad
school, you
bring on one more robots. The the
hardware problem and the operational
problem for us is how do we build,
improve, and scale a fleet of
heterogeneous robots. You know, it's
just not one robot platform. And because
we built the organization from scratch
in the beginning to to to support that,
like I think we're able to do it, but
it's just a really hard uh problem. And
because
there's just like no two different
robots in the fleet. Like, how do you
make sure that everything runs smoothly?
We're really good at divide and conquer,
if you ask. But so, how many how many
co-founders are there in total? We have
Brian, we have Chelsea, Sergey, myself,
Rocky, and Adnan. Is it just necessary
to have that many co-founders to solve a
problem as big as this, or was it a case
like you were already sort of like a
unit
together, you'd already worked together,
and you just what whatever you started,
you would all have would always get
>> One common question that we have is, you
know, why bend together? And, you know,
the first is that we really enjoy each
other's company.
Um we spend a lot of time at work, and
it's, you know, in some sense, give
meaning to life. And so, we really want
to enjoy the relationship we have at
work. Um and the second is that, you
know, any one of us could have started
um a company and be successful, but the
problem is just so incredibly hard. And
the chances of success is just so much
higher that we bend together, and we can
divide and conquer the problems. Um and,
you know, that's the I think one of the
main reason why the progress has been
much faster than than we expected. What
are the differences of um
you working before in either academia or
uh
big
industry, big company, like Google, and
as opposed to now in a startup? Because
this is this is the first time for a lot
of you doing a startup, right? Yeah,
this is the first time for a lot of us.
Um one of the really surprising thing
that we learned when we started the
company is that the infrastructure for
supporting large-scale general purpose
robot which is not there. And, you know,
this start from the software itself. How
do you collect data? What device do you
use to collect data? How do you manage
the data? How do you
uh annotate the data? How do you get
visibility into the data? How do you run
evaluation? How do you build operational
process? Like there wasn't company that
offer this kind of services, which is
very different from software, and we
were really surprised
to to to find out. And so, we
ends up writing a lot of the software at
Pi ourselves, but I think this is
another area of incredible opportunity
of kind of building services for robot
company. Like, you know, if you can
offer remote teleop, for example, if you
can offer data collections, if you can
offer annotation service. Because, you
know, these are functions that doesn't
need to be repeated from one company to
the next. So, I think there's lots of
opportunity to build um kind of support
for growing robotic business. Um so,
that's one thing like one surprising
thing that I learned. And the second is
I think one of the reason why we have
managed to achieve such progress is that
there is a really tight loop of
collaboration in the entire life cycle
of
model development. Um going from what
task you collect data for? If you
collect data for that task, how do you
do it? What hardware do you use? It was
after you collect the data, how do you
get visibility? How do you ensure data
quality?
Um how do you then make sure that you
can easily train on that data? If after
you train on that data, how do you run
evaluation? Evaluation is really hard
problem in robotic because it scales
super linearly to model capability.
Like, let's say you have a model that
can perform a 2-minute task. Running
evaluation for that is very different
from running evaluation for a task
that's 20 minutes. Like, it's not 10
times harder. It's it's it's it's more
than 10 times harder. Um after you run
evaluation, how you can how do you can
like dis- distill the learning from that
evaluation to know how to improve the
the model further. Like, one of the
really side project I would love to take
on is to build a automated robotic
research scientist. Mhm. Um which is
really one of the bottleneck we have
today because this is a really difficult
skill set
um that require intuition about the
entire stack. So, you know, I would love
it if there is a model that can ingest
multimodal data such as this and analyze
failure modes, um you know,
understanding, "Oh, is the robot
performing this way because of the data
that was collected or the way that it
was annotated or the way that we trained
the model?" And then, you know, suggest
idea and actually try them to figure out
if, you know, those hypotheses are
correct. So, that's something that I
would love to have and would like
dramatically unlock this. So, sometimes
I make the joke in the company that we
should record all of the meetings and
then train train a model to basically
just make prediction about what is the
next set of experiments.
>> You totally could. What if it's Open
Claw and um Obsidian and Markdown files
and like, you know, a brain.md with like
ontology that's custom to your use case
and what if it's 100 Open Claws in the
background that you orchestrate? I think
there's two sides to this. The first is
that we already see a little bit of a
sign of life where for simple failure
modes, um during evaluation, if you can
describe the way that the robot failed
in text very precisely and very clearly,
then
you know, you can ask the language model
to make very reasonable recommendation
about what the next step is. Um but the
the the flip side is that this only
works for simple cases today. And the
reason why that's the case is because I
think it's pretty um fundamental
limitation of the model that we have
today, which is that they are
not
at the core model that take action in
the world and see the consequences of
its own action, especially action that
changes the physical world. Um and and
so, I I think this kind of very
fundamental understanding about how the
physical world works is missing from the
really large foundation model. Um and
and
I think that's that's one of the
ingredient that's missing to to be able
to build this automated robot research
scientist. What's interesting about Open
Claw? I don't know. I mean
basically it can go and
it can just do things which is
interesting. And then at that point it's
on the research lab to provide like you
know, CLI MCP endpoints to the things
that might control robots or reconfigure
rooms or I mean I think it's Karpathy
feels like he's he's starting to talk a
bunch about this where you know, if you
mix auto research plus what he's been
talking about with markdown files like
it might just happen in the open. Like
it you know, there's a sort of sense
that you have to make something much
much more complicated to make it work.
But what if that's just wrong? What if
we just have markdown files and agents
and you know, you could
make it yourself with you know,
literally clawed code and MCP today.
What if it's not an algorithm problem?
It's just literally an integration
challenge.
>> We have a version of this internally
that I use a lot. There was a point when
I was spending a
embarrassingly large
amount of money on API queries.
>> Yeah, yeah. Um and you know, the my team
was like "Quon, what are you doing?"
>> Oh, I'm that guy at Y Combinator right
now.
>> [laughter]
>> So uh to to to to give you an example,
um
we have a clawed scale that is
essentially serving the role of a
pre-training on clawed today. Um so you
know, we have these pre-training runs
that are really large. Um
it's very I think a difficult exercise
to keep them alive to you know, for them
to continue to churn just because
there's so many things that can go
wrong. And we have um
I I I prototype a pre-training on clawed
that kind of babysit the run and have
the permission to take action to remedy
error that it see. Um and one of the
surprising outcome of that exercise is
that it leads about 50% improvement in
compute usage. Like just overall compute
utilization for that last pre-training
run, which is huge for us.
Um and you know, this was just a small
simple prototype that I that I built and
I think there's like there's a lot more
to be done. Quan, this is incredible.
Thank you so much for everything. Thank
you for making physical intelligence.
Thank you for showing us these
incredible demos and
uh honestly, like the thing that gives
me the most hope is this idea that
there's an entity, there's a you know,
research lab out there that is focused
on giving this to the world, you know,
about to create this Cambrian explosion
of robotic startups. So, someone
watching right now will be inspired by
this and uh you know, start playing with
your models and they might create a
robot that uh touches billions of
people's lives in for the good. Thank
you for having me. Been a pleasure. Um
to a listener, the one takeaway that I
want you to have is I think robotic has
changed a lot and the cost of building
in robotic has decreased and I think
will continue to dramatically um
decrease. And it also require a very
different kind of scrappy skill set um
that young startup like needs. We hope
to enable really an explosion of many
many many different robotic use case.
And [music] you know, always reach out
to us if you want to collaborate.
Thanks, man. Thanks so much. Thank you.