Title: Tokenmaxxing: How Top Builders Use AI To Do The Work Of 400 Engineers
Video ID: 57lDpTwiW6g
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57lDpTwiW6g
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-05-08T14:30:06Z
Duration: PT41M30S
Views: 83003
Likes: 1671
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1165

Description:
We're entering a new era of software where a single person, working with AI agents, can build products that previously required entire teams.

In this episode of Lightcone, the hosts break down the rise of AI coding agents, "tokenmaxxing", and the emerging workflows behind tools like Claude Code and OpenClaw. They discuss why AI systems today feel less like productivity tools and more like collaborators, why the future of AI should be personal and user-controlled, and how founders are starting t

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I think that's like the defining
question. Like, will you have control
over your own tools or will your tools
have control over you? Using open cloud
these days is like driving a Ferrari and
it's like exhilarating. It's insane.
Like, you get to do things like it
figures things out you would never think
a machine could figure out and it does
it so quickly, but then it's also like a
Ferrari and that you better be a
mechanic.
Like, it's a Ferrari that will break
down on the side of the road you know,
when you most need it and you need to
get out with your wrench and pop the
hood and like fix it, you know, you're
going to have to fix it yourself. And
so, this is a very exciting time
>> [music]
>> in uh computer science and technology.
Welcome back to a special episode of the
Light Cone. In this episode, we're going
to talk about how Garry Tan got back to
building.
If you follow us on Twitter, you'll know
that after a multi-year hiatus to become
an investor, Garry Tan is back to being
a builder and in the last couple months
he shipped hundreds of thousands of
lines of code and built popular open
source projects that have gone from
nothing to more than 100,000 stars on
GitHub. And he did all of this while
having a very demanding job running YC
full-time. A lot of people on the
internet don't even think that this is
possible and are somewhat like in
disbelief, but it actually happened. We
know because we were here to see the
whole thing. And so, today we're going
to talk about how he did it.
>> Well, I'm relatively uh shocked myself.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm amazed as well. It was 13 years of
not coding and then suddenly boom, I'm
doing about 400x the amount of work that
I was that year the last time I was even
sort of like 2/3 of the time writing
code. Baby, to start things off, how
would we go back to the project that
started it all off, which was Garry's
List?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> And just like talk about a few months
ago how you powered up Cloud Code and
like started to get back to coding.
>> And it was right after one of the Light
Cone episodes, right?
>> Oh, yeah, definitely. I realized that I
wanted to bring together all the people
who believed what I believed, um
particularly for California. And so, I
started a
uh 501c4, and now it's a c3 and a PAC,
which is sort of what a lot of political
groups do. Um it's a very common way to
bring people together. You know,
everyone focuses on the money, but we're
trying to bring together smart people.
Um you know, what I learned in the years
of working in San Francisco politics is
that bringing together people is so
powerful. And uh that's what a mass
social movement is. And I said, "Okay,
well, why don't I just make a website
where we start doing that?" And it would
just start with um why don't I start
writing about the issues that I'm
worried about. It's like, I want
children in school, you know, people
watching this from all around the world
might find it very, very strange, like I
find it strange, that uh it was not
possible and still very, very hard for a
seventh grader or eighth grader in
middle school in San Francisco public
schools to be able to take algebra. And
that was,
you know, a math education thing. Like,
I you know, if I didn't get to do that
when I was in public schools in the East
Bay of the Bay Area,
there's no way I would have studied
engineering at Stanford. I never would
have written code. I never would have
been able to do any of these things. So,
it was close to my heart, and I realized
like, "Hey, it's time to write code."
And I ended up building Posterous, my
first YC startup from 2008.
>> What what was Posterous for people who
don't remember it? Yeah, Posterous was
uh that simple blogs by email. It grew
to be a top 200 website on the internet,
and then Twitter ended up buying it for
about $20 million. So, that was sort of
like my first bag, really. I actually
built it again uh as Posthaven when
Twitter um you know, bought it for the
amazing people that we had hired, and uh
they shut down the startup. It would
have cost a couple million dollars to
buy it back from Twitter and at the time
I had no money in the world, so the next
best thing was why don't I write it
again? And then in January of this year,
I ended up writing it a third time.
Only, you know, the first time it took
about, you know, $4 million
and, you know, six or seven people and
about a year and a half. And then the
second time it, you know, took about, I
don't know, 100 grand and two people, me
and my co-founder Brett Gibson, who now
runs Initialized. Um, and maybe like 3
months or so.
And then in this case it took about
$200, which was my Claude code Max
account, and probably 5 days.
Full-featured blog platform, does
everything you want. And then on top of
that, like full rag, full um, agentic
retrieval, like be able to, you know,
sort of go out and read all of the
internet, like every tweet I've ever
done. Recursive crawl, deep research of
any topic. The algebra thing is just one
of a whole lot of different issues that
we really, really care about. And to be
able to go ingest the internet, you
know, see all the arguments for and
against, and then to craft incredibly
detailed um, reports on the back end
about um, what are all the quotables?
Like, I think people who are big
followers of the Light Cone might
remember one of our first episodes about
agentic uh, systems with Jake Heller.
Actually, so Jake created Case Text and
he described exactly what I ended up
building for basically journalistic uh,
long-form articles about any, you know,
sort of issue or uh,
you know, piece of news that was
happening. And so, you know, anyone can
go to Gary's list.org today and you
know, we do about two or three
relatively, you know, researched, all
fully sourced um, articles about what's
going on in California, in San
Francisco, and LA and like how do we
build a better government?
>> is the thing I feel like people missed
about Gary's list they don't fully get
is that it's like the classic thing
we've been talking about here which is
like software was you build software to
let people use it. So it was like you
build a blogging platform and people
like write blogs and maybe like they
start their own Substack eventually or
they write articles. But Gary's list is
both blogging platform but it actually
does the work of a high quality
investigative journalist. It's not just
something that a journalist uses to
publish their articles.
>> Yeah, I mean basically the for the
equivalent of like five or ten dollars
of Opus calls, I mean I would estimate
that it does the work of like, you know,
a real human being that would have to
like go painstakingly through dozens of
articles, read entire books about
certain subjects, uh annotate them. I
mean going back to the case text example
like the thing that Jake taught me was
that you need to think about what a
human would do with the context given.
Like what would it retrieve? Like does
it go to the library? What kind of book
would it look for? What does it search
on for search, you know, on the web? I
mean the great thing now is like you
don't have to just do that. Like you can
get Perplexity's API and you can do deep
research there. You have X's API, you
can do deep research there. You know,
Grok's API if you need to like do
research on X using the Grok API is
actually very, very good. And you can
just grab all of the context. This is
sort of going back to the philosophy of
boil the ocean which is one of my
essays. It's like particularly when
building a Gentex software now,
you don't have to settle for um
what we did when we were humans writing
the code. Like and that goes for
research as well. What if you absolutely
boil the ocean? Like what is, you know,
the total completionist like if you were
a human this would take you about a
month to do this research, you can just,
you know, zap the rocks harder.
Uh you know, it you pay more money and
you might be token maxing, but you
should token max. Like, basically, if
there is incremental work that makes
something more complete, more awesome,
more uh, you know, in the case of um,
this type of writing, like, we want it
to be more representative of reality.
Like, you know, we don't just settle for
one source when we can get 20 sources
and we can cross-reference them. We can
figure out like, well, these 13 sources
say this and seven sources disagree with
that. And then, you know, you want to
feed all of that context into like your
core prompt and then you can
basically make a better decision than
what you would like just, you know, a
human being clicking on a link, reading
a headline, and that's all you
understand. And I think if you token
max, like, that's actually the coolest
thing you can do now. And it's not just
in, you know, generating articles. It's
not, you know, it's clearly in uh,
writing code, right? I think now it's
it's going to permeate every part of
society. Like, every thing that we would
call knowledge work could be token
maxed. And um, I don't think that it
means that we're going to get rid of
people. I think it means that people
need to still supply uh, the agency.
Like, I need this. Like, I'm the one
who's sitting here caring about algebra.
Like, I want kids like me who couldn't
afford private school. You know, San
Francisco is the one city in the world
that has the highest rate of private
school attendance, um, probably in the
entire country, actually. And that's not
okay. Like, you shouldn't have to be
rich to have a good education. And, you
know, I don't know why that's
controversial. And so, for me, it's like
this, you know, mass sort of a shift in
technology was happening and then, uh, I
had a need and a want and a desire and
it was a burning desire. Like, I it
hurts me and pains me to think about 10,
12, 13-year-old kids who don't know
algebra and like could have, but uh some
bureaucrat or, you know, some
virtue-signaling person in power says
like actually I don't want that kid who
wants to learn algebra to learn it. So,
I think in this process of basically
solving your own pain and need from the
young Gary and building Gary's list, you
sort of discover a lot of patterns on
token maxing and this new way of
building that led you to the next
project, which was uh G stack. Like I
actually did not plan to make G stack.
All I did was like I uh realized that I
was doing the same things over and over
again, and then I got sick of typing the
same thing, so I went into my Apple
Notes. I typed in all the things that I
found myself writing over and over again
into Claude code. And it was pretty
simple stuff. It's like here's the plan
review. One of the things I started
doing is I really love asking Claude to
make ASCII art diagrams. One of the
things I discovered is um sometimes
Claude would just get confused and like
write bugs or not be complete. But once
I started saying, "Actually, before you
start your work, make an ASCII diagram
of all the data flows, all the inputs
and outputs, what are the user flows,
what are the error messages." And you
can see this. It's like data flow, state
machines, dependency graphs, processing
pipelines, decision trees. Once it did
that, it loaded all of the context in,
and then it just did the work more
completely. Like it boiled the ocean
better. And it broke down into a bunch
of different sections. Like here's
architecture review, code quality, test.
I mean, one of the things I learned
building Gary's list was that when I was
writing the code myself, I would always
do the minimum amount of testing
cuz it's just like not very fun. I knew
I needed to have it, but I'm here to
write, you know, fun new code. I, you
know, did not like write to write tests.
And then honestly, like I hit all the
things that everyone else hits when they
start bike coding, which is like this is
slop, it's not working that well, like
it works fine for the 80% case, but if
any users actually touch it, it starts
falling over. And then that's when I
realized, oh, I can get to 100% test
coverage. I've since learned that 100%
is probably too much, like hitting 80 to
90% is usually the best practice at this
point. Um but yeah, this this is
basically the first version of
plan-eng-review.
I know everyone knows the office hour
skill, uh which is, you know, what
people can use and I still use when I'm
trying to make a brand new product or a
brand new feature. It uh simulates what
a what we do when we're working with a
company. It's like, how do you know that
people want this, you know, who's it
for, what does it do, and what's the
impact, right? But this is like the
proto skill, like this is I didn't even
know skills existed, and I posted this
and it went viral, like you know,
200,000 people saw that. And then I made
another version of it that was a much
more
uh expensive version. I called it the
mega plan, and then I ended up um
renaming it to the CEO plan. We've
probably talked about meta prompting
before. I used meta prompting here. I
took the other review plan that we had,
and then uh I said, "Okay, well, let's
do a version of this, but like imagine
Brian Chesky sitting with you, right?
Like Brian Chesky has this great line
about uh what is a 10-star experience?"
So, and you know, the point of it is
everyone thinks about hotels in terms of
like three This is a two three-star
experience, is a four-star experience,
and he like goes, you know, through the
list, like five stars, it's like
everyone, you know, yeah, cool, like
he's like, "What's a six-star? And
what's a seven-star? And what's an
eight-star?" And like he goes all
through that entire list. And um
that's one of my favorite like product
and design exercises to go through like
as a mental exercise, and then the cool
thing is like you can do that every
single time now. And so, that's what
this is, You know, this prompt basically
tries to figure out what is the platonic
ideal of
what this is. These are sort of like
three the two things that are pretty
awesome. One is what is the 10x check?
What is more ambitious and delivers 10x
more value for only 2x the effort.
Right? And so, for whatever reason
coming out of latent space, this helps
the model like really visualize. Like
so, I'm plan CEO skill I actually really
enjoy because I'm an ADHD CEO and I love
potential, like pure potential. And so,
this is like the one like I can't
believe this is just literally two
little sentences. But like this unlocks
an incredible amount. And so, that's how
G G stack started actually not as you
know, I didn't want it to be anything
other than like, well, I just need to
make some skills. And I had heard that
people were making like skill repos.
But then the third thing I did was I
started using these two skills so much
that my conductor instance was getting
very backed up. So, this is how I use
conductor. This is actually my real
setup like Okay. So, this is your like
daily workflow. This is how you've been
shipping hundreds of thousands of lines
of code a month. It's all it's all in
here.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, I dropped like
13 PR's in the last 48 hours. And then,
you know, I you just queue them up. Like
anytime I come up with a new idea, I
come in and here it is. You know, I love
using the CEO skill. I love using the
engine skill to like really make it
super well tested. I did that all in
plan mode. And then I'd click approve
here and then, you know, Claude would go
and do all the stuff. And then I did
that so much that I ended up having like
15 different features that were all
queued up waiting for me to manually
test it. Like it passed it you know, it
passed end-to-end testing. It passed
integration. It passed unit tests. But
like at the end of the day, I still need
to, you know, for Garry's list, it's
like pop open the Rails server and like,
you know, load that user and like make
it into that configuration for that
particular user and like manually just
make sure it works. And I got sick of
doing that and I was trying to use um
Claude in code MCP and it was very, very
slow. Two to three seconds for every
turn. I was like, this is not usable for
QA. But I had heard that Microsoft had
released Playwright, which is sort of um
an alternative testing framework. In
retrospect, it's like actually there was
like agent uh there like agent harness
and like all these other like tools that
I could have used, but the upside and
downside of Claude code is it's so easy
to just start something that I just
popped open like I literally went in
here and this is probably what I did.
It's like, I'm so sick of using Claude.
[laughter]
Claude in
in Chrome MCP, it's too slow. Let's go
ahead and wrap Microsoft's Playwright.
Can we do that?
And then I just pressed enter and then,
you know, one of the things that emerged
with G stack is it like this is how I
create new features now. Of course, you
know, what it's going to do now is like,
hey dude, you already did that, which is
hilarious. You know, I have bug fixes
right next to giant features and then um
the way G stack works, there's a CEO,
there's a designer, there's actually a
developer experience person in there.
There's a number of design tools uh
and then plan eng is the last one and
then I actually usually run {slash}
codex and I recently added a {slash}
Claude in codex. So, one of the cool
things that I actually learned from uh
YC alums, I came to an event and brain
totally frazzled, but you know, went to
one of our batch events and we're just,
you know, shooting the about what's
going on with Claude code versus codex
and at the time I was a total Claude
code only guy
and uh I realized, oh, a lot of people
actually prefer Codex. Why is that? And
I discovered that Claude code is ideal
for the ADHD CEO. But once in a while,
there's a you know, Claude code will
just BS a bunch of stuff. Like Claude
models are very, very good, but like
they are not the smartest, it turns out.
And so a lot of people, you know,
explained to me that if you have a
problem that's much crazier, you need
the 200 IQ nearly non-verbal CEO.
So you can just call in a friend, and
then that's what like {slash} Codex is.
It's a you know, G stack skill that
takes whatever plan it your plan is, or
if you're out of plan mode and you
already implemented, it'll take your
repo, and it'll run Codex in a command
line prompt with the prompt that says
find all the problems and all the bugs,
and it reports it back to Claude code,
and then you and Claude code can work
through those that feedback.
And then I have since added, if you use
Codex as your main coding agent, you can
actually go and type {slash} Claude and
have Claude come and be the CEO briefly,
if you want, as well. The cool thing
about G stack is when I run it through
this program, like I always I do I start
with office hours CEO review, like I do
design if there's UI. If
I know a developer needs to use it,
which is like practically all of G stack
and G brain stuff, I run the developer
review, and then I do end review, and
then Codex. Once that plan is done, I've
worked through all of the issues. The G
stack relies very heavily on ask user
question. So cuz you know, and that's
that to me is like really important.
That's where the human you know, vibe
coder operator agentic engineer needs to
supply their understanding of what's
going on, what are we building. There's
not really a substitute to that. It
would surprise me very much if someone
really truly did manage to make a thing
that could just make software without
the human in the loop. Like that you
know, it's controversial take, I think.
But um, I never want to be entirely out
of the loop. I just want the machine to
do the stuff that I don't want to do.
And so, you know, basically QA is a good
example. And you know, I mean, that's
hilarious. Coming back to the demo, it's
like I type something into the modern
version of G stack, and it's like,
"Dude, what are you doing? Like, we
already built that. We have browse.
Browse is a long-lived HTTP demon with
70 commands as a CLI." And then QA is
just browse, but, um, in the prompt for
QA, it says, "Look in your context. What
did we do on this branch? If there's UI
or any mutation of data, go and use the
browser to test that thing." Which is
cool. It's like having a black box
browser. It blew my mind when it first
worked. It's like, "Mini AGI is already
here." You know, I you know, I realize
this is not true AGI. A true true AGI
would be like, "I'm not even here." Um,
and actually, that's fine. In this
respect, like, as a builder, you know,
selfishly, uh, I hope that we never have
to stop.
>> [laughter]
>> I hope that the machines never figure it
out cuz that would be really cool. Like,
then, you know, humans are really
important, and like, engineers who know
how to do this, who have taste in
design, and product feedback, and, um,
you know, the real [clears throat]
customer in mind, like, we're going to
be like, we basically have wings for as
long as we do. YC Startup School is
back. We're hand-selecting the most
promising builders in the world and
flying them out to San Francisco on July
25th and 26th to discuss the cutting
edge of tech. Apply now for a spot.
Okay, back to the video. I think you
crystallize a lot of these thinking in
this post on X about thin hardness and
fat skills. Oh, yes.
>> Which actually encompasses all of this
philosophy on how to token max. Yeah. I
mean, some of it came out of, uh, being
trolled on the internet relentlessly
about markdown. And like, I you know,
I'm just like peddling a markdown
instead of markdown. and it's like, you
know, I guess my lived experience at
this point is that markdown is actually
code. It's just like this compiled in a
different way, but like you can get the
computer to do really astonishing
things. Like, you mean, even this. It's
like could we have imagined that I would
be talking to something that has
replaced Visual Studio for like I I
don't use Visual Studio at all. Like,
there's no reason to. Like, when I can
talk to my agent and my agent can do
this, right? The article actually name
The name actually came from uh our
partner Pete Kouwenhoven. We have had to
build an internal agent, and you know,
we call that the harness over and over
again. And then at some point using
Cloud Code all day, we realized like you
know, why should we rewrite a version of
that over and over again? Like, you
know, we should just use the things that
are really awesome as, you know,
harnesses. Like, a harness is the core
loop that takes the user input, gives it
to the LLM, runs what the LLM does.
Like, it can do tool calls and things
like that. I mean, why would we build
that? Like, what we should be spending
all our time doing is thinking about
what markdown should there be. And the
way to think about markdown is if you
were an event planner and throwing a
wedding and you were trying to write
down a checklist of how to throw a
wedding again. Like, what would you what
would you write in plain English to
teach the next person who had to do it
what to do. All of that should be in the
markdown.
Whereas, um all the things that should,
you know, be deterministic like um I
mean, or is is a real action. Like, a a
wedding planner might have to call like
20 venues, right? But, you wouldn't use
markdown for that. Like, you would make
a, you know, a call to Twilio for
instance, right? There's like a you
know, sort of all of the difficulty in
in agentic engineering today is when
people try to do things that should be
in markdown in code, and it fails
because code is brittle. It doesn't
understand special cases. It doesn't
actually, you know, code literally
doesn't understand what you want or who
you are. It is like, you know, executing
deterministic zeros and ones in a Turing
complete loop, right? Like it doesn't
know. But then now we have LLMs that
have latent space and they know who you
are and uh it knows what your
motivations are and it can handle
generic cases.
And then, you know, a lot of the the
magic right now as an engineer is like
figuring out, "Okay, how much of it is
over here in LLM land?" And how how much
of it is over there in um code land? And
then, you know, if you combine that with
the other thing I learned, which is like
get to 80 to 90% tests. Like if it's not
tested and you're just throwing users in
there, like it's slop. You know, 10x
worse than like human-written code cuz
like you just have no idea what's going
to happen. Um and so that's like one of
the things that people have to do. It's
like, "All right, not only do you need
to figure out what's going on in latent
space and deterministic space, you also
have to make sure that like it's, you
know, unit individually tested and then
the integration is tested." And then
going back to uh boil the ocean, like
the machine doesn't care. It'll just do
it. It's amazing. Like just zap the
rocks more and you can get to 90% test
coverage and then you can have a system
that, you know, is not quite perfect.
Like, you know, Openclaw right now um
there are lots of like failure cases,
but it's 95% there. You know, it's uh I
feel like using Openclaw these days is
like driving a Ferrari and it's like
exhilarating. It's insane. Like you get
to do things like it figures things out
you would never think a machine could
figure out and it does it so quickly.
Uh but then it's also like a Ferrari in
that you better be a mechanic.
Like it's a Ferrari that will break down
on the side of the road, you know, when
you most need it and you need to get out
with your wrench and pop the hood and
like fix fix it, you know, you're going
to have to fix it
And so, this is a very exciting time in
uh uh computer science and technology
cuz it's like this is Homebrew Computer
Club uh
you know, the moment when the Apple 1
came out. Like the Apple 1 created by
Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak was a
breadboard inside like literally a
wooden case hammered together with like
nails and duct tape, you know?
And uh if you wanted a personal
computer, that's what you had to do. And
that's where we're at right now. Like
you have relatively, you know, smart
technical you know, people who had to
study computer science have to spend
like two or three hours and like maybe
like $500 or $1,000 in both tokens and
cloud to actually get something like
that running. But like once you get it,
it's like we're sort of in the kit car
Ferrari phase. [laughter] It's like then
you can drive and you can go anywhere
and you know, you want you want to shout
to the hills like, "Hey, I got a
Ferrari." Even the part about fixing
yourself, I feel people um
is that one of those things until you've
like pushed through, you just don't
quite get. If I really zoom out, it's
almost like things have moved so
quickly. Like if you think way back,
just having Stack Overflow as a website
that you could consult when you got
stuck on a programming problem felt like
amazing. And then it's like like ChatGPT
launches like, "Oh, now I've got this
like interactive thing that's way better
than Stack Overflow." But you're still
sort of doing the same thing. You're
like asking questions and you're copying
and pasting code and you're running the
code and seeing what happens and copying
and pasting it back. And then you sort
of with Claude Code, you sort of push
through and you realize that you don't
need to do the copying and pasting
anymore. It just like actually like
executes and runs the code. And then
even with Open Claude, I found that when
I set it up, yeah, it's annoying cuz it
can like effectively brick itself and it
does a bunch of annoying things. But if
you actually have like Claude Code, like
So, it'll fix it. Yeah, like you just
have Claude Code running, it will just
like fix it. And I it's clearly not the
way things will be long term, but
there's this mentality shift of it
doesn't actually matter if it's brittle
and requires fixing cuz you can actually
just have another agent like sat there
like fixing it all the time.
>> Yeah, I feel like this evolution I was
like completely Claude code pilled and
still am but like probably only like 50%
or 60% of my time like building product
or agentic engineering is in Claude code
now. At some point basically Almost half
of it is through open Claude now. Yeah,
which is very interesting. I mean then
again I'm also spending a lot most of my
time working on G brain itself. So G
brain came about because I met you know
obviously we had Peter on the show. And
then I finally got around to it. It was
like one weekend I said I got to check
this out like what's going on with the
open Claude. Let's get it going and this
was about the time Karpathy wrote his ex
post about knowledge LM wikis.
And so I was like okay well I have a
repo full of markdown all my you know I
should put all of my context into that
markdown and then at some point I
realized oh shoot it's just using grep.
And grep is not that good. Like it's you
know wasting context as loading a lot
more into context than it needs to and
then I sort of fell into a rabbit hole.
I just went into conductor click quick
start and then I had G stack built into
conductor already and then you know
basically this was how I started. I you
know
>> [laughter]
>> It was actually much more interesting
than that. So
I didn't start off from nothing. One of
the things I've learned as you write
like a larger and larger corpus of code
is like you have it loaded in your
brain. You're like Oh well in order to
build an agentic newsroom for
Gary's list I actually had to learn
about vector embedding and hybrid RRF
and chunking like when you're in there
trying to make it work
you're just like very applied. It's like
I have an output that I want. I want the
article to look like this. It needs to
be of this quality. It needs to have
these citations. Like you start building
up your you know your tests and
integration tests and like you end up
with like a product that's like
battle-tested from like the output that
you want. And so, I sort of put two and
two together and I, you know, and this
is something that, you know, anyone can
do, actually. It's like this this is why
I think we're entering the golden age of
open source.
Uh I could just open, you know, this
project in conductor and then the first
thing I write is like, you know, go look
at, you know, tilde/git/garyslist.
Like look at how we do chunking,
embedding, uh you know, hybrid RRF, rag,
like all of this and then just like
extract it and then I want to use
Postgres with PG vector and like I want
a a, you know, full rag system for my
open claw.
And then sort of like one thing led to
another. It's like then I have, you
know, 10 windows in G brain and I'm just
like at it. What's cool about open claw,
I mean, maybe this is a good example.
This is actually my open claw. I did go
ahead and ask. It's um
how, you know, how did I actually get
into it? January 23rd. Also, all your
emails.
>> a tweet that was like, "Claude code this
week has awakened my 25-year-old self,
the one that checked Red Bulls and
stayed up till dawn coding. We're so
back."
>> [laughter]
>> The builder identity resurfaces.
>> Yeah, and you know, I'm basically back
to, you know, sleeping 4 hours and, you
know, coding 20 hours a day. You know,
this is also when I started getting
myself into trouble like talking about
lines of code. I still believe this, by
the way.
>> might be like a good quick aside to talk
about like this this idea of like lines
of code being important measure has been
like controversial on the internet.
There's obviously the counterargument
like, "Oh, lines of code doesn't like
measure developer productivity." But It
doesn't, right? But it also does. It it
also kind of does, right?
>> Yeah. Like [laughter] it does it's
clearly and, you know, what's
interesting is you can actually um
there's well-published get repos out
there that you can run to uh strip away
and and standardize what is actual
logical lines of code. And so, I
actually did go ahead and do that. Um
you know, and I got into trouble for
saying like, "Oh, I'm coding at like
100x uh the rate that I was in 2013."
And then after I did the logical lines
of code strip down, It actually went up.
>> It actually went up. So, it turns out
that I was actually doing 400x the
amount of code. But, you know, obviously
I wasn't writing it. I was directing,
you know, 15 agents at a time to do so.
And then by the numbers, like it was not
that it did like knock down my lines of
code from Claude code a little bit. But,
uh the surprising thing to me was that
it knocked down the amount of lines of
code that I was writing in 2013 by like
70%. And so, I think that that's sort of
the mismatch here. Like, people get very
upset because it's easy to like pad the
lines of code if you're a human writing
code. Whereas like, unless you direct
Claude code to literally like pad the
lines of code, it doesn't necessarily do
that. Like, it'll maybe build the wrong
thing. Like, you might not steer it very
well. It might not do the right thing.
But, like, it's not trying to optimize
for lines of code the way a human
working a job would, right? Which is,
you know, that's just life. And then,
I guess the really surprising thing is
if you look at the literature about
software engineering going back to like
2000, 1990, I mean, it's pretty clear
that the average number of lines of code
that a professional software engineer
that's like tested and production ready,
it's not like
100 lines of code. It's like 50. It's
like 30. Yeah, a day. Yeah, a day,
right? [clears throat] Like, for me it
was like 14, but I was like part-time. I
don't know. It's uh
So, that's where the 400x actually came
from. You know, the other thing I know
is like, I should have said that instead
of just trolling people more on the
lines of code. So, I, you know, if I
trolled you on the internet, I'm very
sorry for that. Like, there you know,
there is a deeper understanding of this
and I did end up releasing a blog post
about it that
explains this quite a bit more. I mean,
and I think it's not a little bit
significant. It's very significant for
people who are technical because it
actually raises the bar on like what you
are capable of doing. Like, all the
people who are attacking me about lines
of code, they particularly are the
people who are most likely to get wings
if you like let it rip and token max.
This is sort of like the classic
problem. It's like if you have taste and
you understand technology, you are
particularly the people who should would
benefit the most from getting this. All
someone has to do is
you know, believe. Right. Yeah. So, stop
fighting and just open Claude Code and
try it, you know. I think another thing
that's potentially going on is just like
the experience is very dramatically
depending on like the the models and the
harnesses.
I think something I've noticed is any
sort of like semi-complicated
programming task I try and do through my
open claw agent just like kind of fails.
Like, it's exactly the same model and
it's sort of like Opus 4.7 as Claude
Code, but it just like
like anything above like a simple
script, I just find like it's not like
that great at. So, I'll go back into
like Claude Code and then
it was sort of a moment for me where I
realized, oh like this is how it used to
feel. Like, this is how like even 6
months ago it used to feel like, oh like
you try and like these things Yeah,
these things aren't quite there yet. And
then Claude Code with like Opus 4.5 was
like, oh like it's actually like here.
It's about to recur. Like, right now
people sort of are feeling like open
claw or Hermes
is like not quite there or it's like a
lot of work. And then I guarantee you
like this time next year like everyone's
going to be saying what you heard here
first, which is like every single person
on the planet will have their own
personal AI. We could either live in a
world where we have our own AI, where we
have our own data, our own integrations,
like we see what's happening, we write
our own prompts, and we have control
over what we see,
uh or it's corporate controlled. It's
something, you know, you go to a host,
it's kind of like your Facebook feed,
and like you don't know what that, you
know, who wrote that algorithm and who
does it benefit and like what model is
behind it, like nobody knows. The most
powerful idea that like was a gift was
the personal computer revolution, and
we're about to go through exactly that
same shift with personal AI. And it's
going to be a choice, like, you know,
people are going to have to figure out,
am I willing to write my own prompts?
And, you know, I think I wish Pete
Koomen were here, like that's one of the
things we learned from him, too. It's
like, unless you have your own prompts
and you can write it for yourself, like
you are,
you know, below the API line for some PM
or developer that is not you, who like
will not understand you, will not
understand your needs, will not
understand what you uniquely care about.
And I think that's like the defining
question, like will you have control
over your own tools or will your tool
your tools have control over you? And I
think this is the one of the disconnects
that the public has, I think, is a lot
of these capabilities you have to be on
the latest and greatest models, and it's
actually quite expensive to use them and
burn all the tokens, for now. It's
coming down, but I think maybe people
are just trying like Sonnet or the free
model or having the basic Claude Pro
subscription only. Yeah. And part of it
is maybe we have to address that this
new way of really getting all this
almost ASI AGI moment for for building
is you have to be burning lots of tokens
the whole token maxing paradigm.
>> It actually reminds me of rent, San
Francisco rent. Like one of the things
that I feel like we always have to do
um with YC founders is that it's like a
general thing. It's like, "Oh, like I
don't want to move to San Francisco
because it's like so expensive to live
there." But it's like it's so expensive
to not live there.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. [laughter]
That's the whole point, right? Like
early on in a YC batch, like I'm just
used to like a founder being like, Like
this like apartment is like thousands of
dollars a month in rent. Like seems
ridiculous. Like should I like pay it or
not? And it's like, "No, you should
absolutely pay it. And if anything, you
should pay more to not just be in San
Francisco but be in like the
and just like be in like neighborhoods
where you create this serendipity. Like
token maxing is going to be one of those
things for founders that we sort of have
to teach them where it's not immediately
obvious that you shouldn't This is
actually like rent. Like this is one of
the things where you should like spend
as much as you can to like get the like
most utility out of it versus treating
it like the the office desk or
something. Like sure, you can economize
on that. Or you don't need like a super
expensive like couch. But like when it
comes to like actually using the models
and your token spend
>> you should probably be like pushing
pretty hard on that.
>> Yeah, one of the key maxims for YC is
you know, how do you find good startup
ideas? Live in the future and build
what's missing, right? And so this is a
profound version of that where all you
have to do is commit your brain to look
at, you know,
spending $500 in a single day on tokens
and say actually like you know, as long
as I'm building something that's
actually of great value to me, you know,
and I'm building the right thing.
Uh I'm going to do that. Garry, I have a
weird question. Do you think that in
some ways the fact that you tried to
build all of this while also being the
CEO of Y Combinator actually helped you?
Because like your time is so scarce. You
have to like try to figure out how to
write hundreds of thousands of lines of
code
>> with just like spare minutes in between
meetings.
>> Yeah. Unlike a prof- a full-time
software engineer that could, you know,
just take the time to like open the
website and like click around and like
just test it. Like those minutes were
like insanely scarce for you and so you
were constantly pushing yourself to
figure out how to like automate
everything.
>> Yeah, I I envy time billionaires. You
know, sometimes look at I mean, I'm look
at my kids and it's like these kids are
time billionaires right now and I'm
like, you know, you can just like do
thing, you know, you know, run across
people at Startup School all the time
and it's like, you're a time billionaire
right now. Like this is incredible. Like
you could just do anything you like
learn about anything. This is so great.
So yeah, I'm you know, personally like I
think my philosophy is I am in a crazy
rush. In my brain I'm like probably
lived 10 billion lifetimes living in
this body right now and I need every
single moment to count. Uh and then if
you can token max, it's like I mean, you
could buy millions of years of
consciousness
of machine consciousness. Now, I can be
a time billionaire. It's not, you know,
my own time.
It's the time of a machine. Like doing
work for me and like the human entities
that I care about working on the causes
that I care about, right? I care about
YC. I care about builders being able to
build. Even in a lot of our internal
meetings last year, remember in our
offsites, we would talk about like how
do we teach the next generation how to
use these tools? And so, you know, I'd
like to I wish that I could say like
that was all a part of the grand plan
and that's how it started. It's not
like, but you know, subconsciously I
actually think it was. Like I think
subconsciously from doing like cone and
like talking about this stuff, like
sitting side by side with uh Boris
Cherney right here was a very powerful
moment for me because I realized like
he's he started saying things that like
I could do myself. It's like he said,
"Our team doesn't write a single line of
code." I'm like, "Oh, actually like I
can do that." And like the people who
are watching right now, it's like you
and I are not different, right? We're
the same. Like we started in the same
place. I don't think of myself as like,
you know, in the sky yet, even though
people seem to talk like I am, you know,
like I'm just a person trying to do a
thing. And if I sit next to Boris, I'm
like, you know, this guy is one of the
best engineers I've ever met. But also
like, if I just open a prompt, we have
the same prompt. We have the same
MacBook Pro.
And, you know, there's nothing that
stands between like me or you or any of
us from like drawing on millions of
years,
potentially, of like tokens to like
serve humanity. Well, Gary, I think that
was a beautiful quote that should be
retweetable. It shows Got to get it on X
right away. You could have infinite time
by borrowing the time from the machines.
Yeah, what a time to be alive. That's a
beautiful thought to end on.
Thanks, Gary, for showing us the future.
Thanks, guys.
>> All right, thanks for watching and I'll
see you on the next episode of Light
Code.