Title: The Future Of Brain-Computer Interfaces
Video ID: 5gspRJVp9dI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5gspRJVp9dI
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-03-09T14:00:08Z
Duration: PT53M21S
Views: 254471
Likes: 837
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1712

Description:
YC alum Max Hodak is the co-founder of Neuralink and founder of Science, a company building brain-computer interfaces that can restore sight.

Science has developed a tiny retinal implant that stimulates cells in the eye to help blind patients see again. More than 40 patients have already received the treatment in clinical trials, including one who recently read a full novel for the first time in over a decade.

In this episode of How to Build the Future, Max joined Garry to discuss how BCIs wor

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I think it is very possible that the
first people to live to 1,000 are alive
right now. It still takes some
suspension of disbelief because I think
biotech has just been so incremental.
One of the things that's so exciting
about what's happening now is that it no
longer really feels incremental to me. I
think that BCI we're going to come to
see is not is not a specific product. I
think there're going to be a bunch of
BCI companies going after different
applications or different types of
probes will make sense. To me it feels
like we're firmly in like the takeoff
era now. Like something new has happened
on Earth.
Welcome back to another episode of how
to build the future. Today we've got a
real treat, Max Hodak, the co-founder of
Neuralink and also founder of Science,
one of the most exciting BCI brain
computer interface companies that we've
ever seen. Max,
welcome to How to Build the Future.
Thanks for having me. So Science
recently announced more than 40 people
have received one of your first BCI
treatments which gives people their
sight back. What is that? What ha-
what's happening? So we went finished a
a big clinical trial last year which was
published in New England Journal of
Medicine in the fall. So it's a it's a
little chip, a tiny little 2 mm by 2 mm
silicon chip that's implanted in the
back of the eye under the retina that
it's is a tiny little array of
essentially solar panels. So the
patients wear glasses that have a camera
that looks out at the world and then a
laser projector that projects an image
into the eye and wherever the laser hits
the implant it like the solar panel
absorbs the light and then it excites
the cells directly above it. It's a
retinal stimulator and this allows us to
bypass the dead rods and cones, like the
the cells that normally make the eye
light sensitive, to get a visual signal
back into the retina if they've gone
blind because they've lost the rods and
cones. And so yeah, I mean there there
is a big clinical trial in Europe across
17 sites and there's a huge effect. So
we are submitting for approval now. It's
not it's not approved on on the market
yet. Hope to have that later this year.
For those watching who have never heard
of a brain computer interface. What is
it and what have people been able to do?
What are they able to do now? So, the
brain
is a powerful computer, but it's encased
in the skull. Like it is not magically
connected to things. And so,
um it has these these handful of
connections to the world and these give
you the senses that you know and and the
motor control that you know. But, you
can kind of ask like is that So, either
do we want to replace these with
something else? So, for example, like
the simulated reality or the matrix use
case. The other is restoring lost
functionality. So, this is I mean this
is how they're deployed today. So, if
someone has gone blind, you can restore
the ability to see. If they've gone
deaf, you can restore the ability to
hear. If they're paralyzed, you can
restore the ability to move. And then
you can think about structural neural
engineering. And this is the this is the
thing that people haven't really we
haven't gotten to as a field as much.
But, looking at how how does the brain
process information? Can you add new
brain areas? Are there ways to
understand how the brain is like what
what is going on either to use this to
build smarter machines or to think about
how to treat things like depression or
addiction. I'm taken by to what degree
right now it's about sort of
um
taking someone who has a condition or a
disease and then bringing them like sort
of restoring them to
like sort of capability, right? So, I
think that's playing out in AI right now
as well, right? Like you had computers
that had no ability to do like any sort
of pure cognition or like you know, and
you know, no neurons and then suddenly a
bunch of neurons and then AGI is sort of
like what a human can do. It's sort of
like a restoration of capability. And
then of course there's like this other
thing after that, which is you know, uh
ASI, superintelligence.
Do you ever think about what that might
be down the road? You know, what is that
for BCI? There are many types of BCIs.
So, it's there it really is going to be
a category like pharma. It's not It's
not one product. I don't think there's
going to be like the BCI that people
get. And there are different modalities
that work for different things. So, for
example, um I don't work on ultrasound,
but one of the things I think will be
possible with ultrasound is like a
digital Ambien or like a digital
Adderall. So, can you like stimulate
part of the brain to cause focus or
sleep and things like that. Wouldn't
surprise me if that was possible. And
that could I could see as being more of
a consumer application almost. And that
won't require brain surgery, hopefully.
Right now, that the high quality
ultrasound stuff does require drilling
through the skull, but I think that that
will be overcome. For the implantable
BCIs, I mean, this is a very serious
brain surgery. Um I think that's
important to appreciate. So, when you
think about how do you actually get this
into humans and who's going to use it? I
mean, these are going to be very
disabled patient populations. You always
look at risk-reward. You start at the
most disabled patients who get the most
benefit for even relatively basic
functionality. Like, I don't think that
you or I would want to get one of the
cortical motor decoders that you might
have seen out there today. Um because
the reality is that like a keyboard and
mouse is like great. It is a much higher
performance. Like, it you can get like
spoken word is like 40 bits per second.
You can Maybe people can type in like 20
20-ish bits.
Um and so, a 10-bit per second cortical
motor decoder is like not going to make
your life better. I wouldn't get serious
brain surgery for that. Now, as it gets
more powerful and as we are able to
produce kind of access virtual
representations from more of the brain,
especially bidirectionally,
um then you'll start to see like the
risk-benefit change where like my my
view on this is not that I think healthy
30-year-olds are going to be getting
these soon, but eventually many people
become patients. Aging is like the
correlate of kind of everything getting
worse. And so, there's some critical age
where it kind of crosses over where it
makes sense to have something that will
restore some functionality that you had.
And then eventually that will kind of
cross like we cross the origin and then
you'll see people that had something
terrible happen to them who now have a
capability that you're you're jealous
of. And that will be kind of when you
start to see it changing. Talk to me
about how uh people who maybe never had
sight, you know, why is was the optic
nerve not you know, not actually set up?
Like, is that not something that you can
do later? How does plasticity fit in?
You know, do you have to get BCIs when
you're incredibly young while the brain
is still plastic? Like, how does all
this come together? Neuroplasticity is
really interesting and really
misunderstood. Um there are genuine
critical periods in early development
that if you miss them, there are some
things that will be very hard to wire up
later. Um there actually are some cases
of patients that were born blind who um
but it wasn't a it wasn't a loss of the
optic nerve, it wasn't something in the
brain, but they had congenital
cataracts. So, their vision was blurry
from birth and they were never able to
really form images who then had this
fixed as adults and that did not work. I
mean, this was um it was the they didn't
their brain could not make sense of the
information. It was totally
overwhelming. They would wear eye
patches. Several of them committed
suicide. Oh my god. And so, there is
there are clear critical periods in
early development where if you miss
that, some things are not going to work.
With that said, the brain stays way more
plastic throughout life in adulthood
than I think is is widely appreciated.
That's a relief. Um yeah, if I put an
electrode almost anywhere in your brain
and then wake you up in during surgery
and I show you a flashing light that is
that flashes proportionally to how much
that neuron is firing, at least almost
anywhere in cortex, within a couple
minutes, you can learn to control uh
like that neuron.
And so, the brain is very plastic under
feedback. And this is partly how the the
cortical motor decoders work. Some of it
is you're decoding what the brain was
originally representing
um in terms of like a hand or arm
representation, but also just if you're
getting the signals out of the brain and
you're giving the patient feedback for
like what those signals are doing, then
the brain also adapts to you. And so, in
the first experiments for this, they
actually didn't fit anything at all.
They just put took a couple ner- they
took two neurons or handful of neurons
and fixed the weights. So, it said,
"When this neuron fires more, we're
going to go up the screen. When this
neuron fires more, we're going to go
down the screen." And sideways, they
fixed the weights and let the brain
figure it out. Let the brain learn. And
again, the brain is very plastic under
feedback and can do this. Well, that's a
powerful moment. You have a learn You
have We have
uh two learning systems that can learn
off of one another instead of sort of a
fixed one with if statements on this
side.
>> Totally. Yeah. And the brain really like
if you give the cortex information, it
is really good at extracting the
meaning. Now, in adulthood, I think one
of the reasons that you don't see it as
being so plastic is because it has
already fit well to reality.
And so, there's like if you think of it
as this like energy surface and like the
state of brain states is this like
you've got these hills and valleys. So,
during normal development, typically for
most people, there's this like enormous
basin in this energy surface. And so,
for most people like you like during
development, you descend into this basin
and then you're down there and it's
stable because you've like fit to
reality. And if I show you like weird
movies, it's not going to really push
you out of that. You can I think like
one of the theories of what psychedelics
do is they kind of add kind of anneal
it. So, it kind of shrinks the surface a
little bit. So, you kind of access these
other states. But then when it wears
off, you just immediately descend back
down into the energy well that the brain
had fit to. And so, even though the
brain's still plastic, it is in this
stable like part of the attractor system
so that
it doesn't you don't see the plasticity
as much. And this was selected for.
>> Um and it this was absolutely selected
for. Yeah. And so, there's a tension
between there absolutely is ongoing
plasticity. If there wasn't plasticity,
you couldn't learn things. And so, like
your ability to learn new stuff is like
and have memory. Like all memory is
brain plasticity in many ways. And so,
we are constantly experiencing very
dramatic plasticity. But there are also
clear limits to it, especially in how
like the modules of the different brain
areas end up interconnected past these
critical periods. I have like a million
questions, honestly. I mean, one of the
things that I'm super curious about is
like well, what is the qualia of the
person who has prima? and what is, you
know, I'd be curious like with the
biohybrid approach, like what does it
feel like? And you know, like is it like
having a second screen? Like, you know,
is there input or output? I'm very
curious. Yeah, so for Prima, actually,
on the topic of plasticity, in the time
that the patients are blind, the brain
The brain wants to see. Like again, you
The thing you experience is this world
model constructed by the brain, and that
is this is this generative model that is
conjuring your reality. And so, when
it's not getting input from the from the
optic nerve, it's still trying to see
things. So, it kind of turns up the
noise. And so,
um blind patients often report like
hallucinations and these like internally
generated percepts. When you first turn
on the implant in these patients, like
you hit it with the laser, um they'll
they'll say, "Oh, I see a flash." But
then you can do a thing where you'll
you'll
turn on the laser, they'll see a flash,
and you'll you'll play a tone. And you
do this a couple times, and then you
like don't turn on the laser, but you
play the tone, and they're like, "I see
the flash." Hm. And so, for the first
couple hours of rehab, they kind of just
have to like learn to like dissociate
the real percepts from the phantom
percepts because the brain is like so it
is like so turned up the gain at like
turned up turned down the noise floor
that um just like getting learning how
to discriminate real information coming
in from the optic nerve takes a little
bit of rehab. The qualia of Prima is is
normal sight. Um it's black and white.
It's only a It's a small field of view,
but it's it's vision. The
deeper question is like what is the
qualia of like a brain to brain of like
an ultra-high bandwidth like a biohybrid
neural interface? And that is just like
I don't like impossible to imagine. I
Those devices will get built, and we're
going to find out, but um there are some
natural like case studies. So, there's a
pair of conjoined twins in Canada that
it's really like one head with four
hemispheres. And what's really
interesting is the two hemispheres of
each of the twins' brains are connected
normally, but they're not connected with
each other except for this one cable
connecting the the the thalami like from
the thalamus to thalamus there's this
big biological cable that you can see on
MRI.
And over this they can share meaningful
elements of their conscious experience.
And one of the open questions that
hasn't really been studied in in the
depth that I would like love to see it
um is when they they can see to some
degree through each other's eyes, but I
does it show up as new visual field?
Like how is this how do those get
experienced
directly Like we already most people
have two image modes. Like you've got
your eye open vision, but you also have
imagination. Some people are aphantasiac
and they don't have internal imagery.
Most people have kind of two image
modes. Do they have three image modes or
four image modes? Or if they um have
internal monologue, they can
they seem to each individually have
internal monologue, but they also can
clearly communicate over this channel
because they've done they've done tasks
where like they can coordinate without
saying anything to to do stuff. And
they're conscious of and they're
conscious of it and it's also they don't
confuse it for each other. It's not like
like with a schizophrenic where it's
like oh I'm hearing voices and that
they're coming from internally generated
me. It's misattributed monologue. That
doesn't happen to them. They can tell it
apart. Um but they're experiencing it
directly in some way. And so
there's a question of is this like when
you look at that cable are they sending
the like information in a the classical
way or is this is there like a an
effective like phenomenal binding
happening over this cable where it's
more like the two hemispheres of your
brain that are bound together into one
moment. And so there's these natural
case studies that tell us that some
really interesting things might be
possible here, but I is kind of tough to
imagine what it would feel like.
Paint the picture for us, you know
you're here, everything goes really
really well. Where are we in 5 to 10
years with this technology? I mean I do
think that that you can get to to a
close to native acuity. So kind of like
near normal 20/20 vision. We're we're
definitely not there yet, but I see a
path to get there and be able to get
color and fill in a lot of the field of
view. To be be clear that it's not where
we are right now, but in the next 10
years I think that that's possible. But
beyond that, I'd say that our world view
or my world view, and it's the
motivating idea behind the company, is
you can contrast this this like there's
like a drug discovery approach to
medicine versus a neural engineering
approach to medicine. And this is much
broader than the retinal prosthesis. We
started with that because it's a huge
unmet need, and I think it's the most
valuable PCI like product on the like on
the horizon that I thought was doable
now. Humanity just isn't very good at
drug discovery. Every now and then you
kind of find a thing, it's amazing, like
you find a GLP-1, or you find um like
there's every like there's a handful of
drugs that are we were lucky to find.
But it's much more common that you spend
a decade going down this this path, and
then at the end you run a study and the
answer's no, and then it's like where do
you go from there? There's been a huge
amount of work that's gone into finding
drugs to to like stop um
blindness getting worse or to or to
reverse and restore vision
to to basically no effect. There's a
million-dollar per patient gene therapy
that has a really very marginal, like if
any, benefit to a very small small
percentage of patients in the first
place.
And with our retinal prosthesis, that
what we saw in the trial was we can take
a patient who's been unable to see faces
for a decade and allow them to read
every letter on an eye chart. And so not
only is the brain the only organ that
really in some deep sense matters, we
are also just empirically much better at
engineering it. And so I think this like
allows like a really fundamental
reframing of medicine. And over the next
decade I think like beyond being able to
see, hear, have balance, have a kilobit
per second of motor control that is like
you. And I think like we have cochlear
implants, we have we know how to do
motor decoding, the thing we didn't know
how to do is restore vision. We're
working we're making real progress on
that. I think all of this adds up to
something that speaks I think to the
really foundations like of this paradigm
shift in what's possible in healthcare.
Something like this uh I remember
reading about maybe like 10 20 maybe
even 20 years ago, they were able to
stimulate the optic nerve with
electricity directly, but it was very,
very low resolution. And it was so
invasive that it could probably only be
done in a clinical setting or in a
surgical setting. It's relatively easy
to get flashes of light. Um to cause a
patient to kind of see these these
flashes. That We call these phosphenes.
There was a company a decade ago called
Second Sight that had an electrical
stimulator that was implanted in the
eye. It was a 4 and 1/2 hour surgery
with a titanium box on the side of the
eye. Um it stimulated a different layer
of cells than we do. And they were able
to get these flashes where like if a
patient looked at it, they could say
like, "Oh, there's some flashes here.
There's some flashes here. It's
connected with an A." And then we showed
the next letter. And it's like, "There's
some here. There's some here. It's an
H." But it doesn't the brain doesn't
assemble together these flashes of light
into like a Gestalt whole that is an
image in the mind's eye.
Um similarly, when you stimulate cortex,
um like the back of the head where the
visual cortical areas are, you can get
these flashes of light. And you can even
in some cases get a lot of them, but
again, the brain doesn't like you it's
kind of this more psychedelic effect.
Like this doesn't get assembled together
into form vision. And as far as I know,
our clinical trial was the first time
ever that form vision had been like had
created a like a coherent image in the
mind's eye of a of a person. Is there
something uh specific about macular
degeneration that causes, you know, this
to be possible for this set of patients?
So, there's a bunch of reasons why
people lose rods and cones. Um there's
macular degeneration, there's retinitis
pigmentosa, there's some rare like
inherited diseases like Stargardt's
disease, diabetic retinopathy. You can
do it. Age-related macular degeneration,
it's the most common. Um so, this
globally affects 200 million people. The
severe form, geographic atrophy, is is a
million to a couple million. In that
sense, it's a big need. One of the nice
things about our device
is that it doesn't We're somewhat
agnostic to the reason that you lost the
photoreceptors. And so, we we think
it'll also work um for retinitis
pigmentosa, for Stargardt's, for these
other indications. We're actually just
about to start a new clinical trial on
on inherited retinal disease,
which affects much younger people. And
this again, this goes back to like the
drug discovery versus neural engineering
view of the world. Like if you want to
make a if you want to make a drug, then
you care a lot about exactly like what
molecularly went wrong in the rod or
cone.
And that is different by disease. Then
even if you figure this out, it's really
hard to like understand what to do about
it. Here, we don't really care why the
rods or cones die. We just care that we
can get the the visual signal back into
the computer. I guess I'm just very
fascinated by, you know, obviously
uh as a computer scientist, you spend a
lot of time thinking about inputs and
signals. And then what I'm hearing is
that like some of that thinking does
actually translate into
uh from software into wetware. Well, I
mean the brain is a computer. And that's
going to Saying that is going to get me
yelled at by some corner of of the
field, but I think like I think that you
can take that like almost literally.
It's a It's a very different
architecture than like a like a von
Neumann architecture electrical
computer, but it processes information.
It gets information down one of 12
cranial nerves or 31 spinal So all of
the information that flows in or out of
the brain goes through a small number of
cables. The optic nerve, we call cranial
nerve two,
um the vestibulocochlear nerve that
carries hearing and balance is cranial
nerve eight. Um there's 31 spinal nerves
that carry commands out to the muscles
and sensory information to the brain.
And you can think of that as like the
API of the brain. And if you can like
get all the signals going down those,
then like that's like the brain is not
magically connected to the environment.
It is reality is whatever spikes are on
the cranial and spinal nerves.
And in that sense, you've got this like
well-defined interface to it. Then with
the processing, once it gets this
information, is enormously complicated.
It constructs everything we experience.
I think it's important to appreciate You
experience yourself being in the world.
You kind of see the the walls in the
room and the lights and and everything.
But that, of course, you're not
experiencing directly. You're
experiencing a world model like
fabricated by your brain. But I I think
one of the interesting things that's
come out of progress in artificial
intelligence is we're seeing this big
unification in neuroscience and and AI.
I think we're actually learning a lot
from AI research more than I think we
thought we would learn from AI research.
I mean, I can tell you 10 years ago we
thought it would go the other way and
that the AI people would learn a lot
from neuroscience and it's really been
the other way around. I'm always
curious. I mean, say you're mentioning
Second Sight sort of, you know, flashes
of light and yet, you know, here
you know, how did you figure out the
API? I mean, if I was, you know, trying
to reverse engineer it, I guess I would
like try to measure the signals. Is it
similar with Yeah. you know, biology?
It's just it's difficult to measure the
signals. So, brain brain computer
interface research and development is
limited by your ability to record and
stimulate the signals. The neuroscience
comparatively is actually pretty simple.
As soon as you can record the signals,
we've very quickly figured out what we
we talk about neural representations,
what they are. Second Sight's
instructive. So, in the retina, there's
three layers of cells that matter.
There's 150 million rods and cones. This
connects to 100 million bipolar cells.
Bipolar because they've got two ends and
that connects the rods and cones to 1.5
million optic nerve cells, called
retinal ganglion cells. Ganglion is like
a fancy word for like reaches a far
distance and connects to somewhere. We
stimulate the 100 million bipolar cells.
Second Sight stimulated the 1.5 million
ganglion cells. And so, they were trying
to get the signal into the brain past
that 100x compression. And the retina
was doing a lot of computation there.
The eye's a camera, light shines in from
the front, it hits the rods and cones
like that. The representation in the
rods and cones is a bit mapped image.
It's just like you could take the image,
you tile it across the rods and cones.
That And that's why
>> That's what it is. Now, in the
the 1.5 million optic nerve cells, it's
not like that. Like if you just project
an image onto them, you get a bunch of
trash. And because at that point it's
already compressed, things like edges,
relative motion, a bunch of others like
blobby shapes, color. And so, if you
stimulate a cell there, you're not going
to get just like a pixel, you're going
to get like some
uh edge mo like direction gradient
thing. And when you excite that, you you
can't do that selectively cuz we don't
they first of all, you just can't do it
selectively enough, and we don't know
that like the Kodak. We don't have like
the know how to pattern it
appropriately. And so, you end up
getting these flashes of light. It was
an empirical discovery of of our study
that if you excite the bipolar cells
with an image, you got an image in the
mind's eye cuz that is clearly the
critical processing step in the retina
that you want to preserve. Did you know
that that would happen, or did you have
to try different parts? When we started
the company,
we I think we're a little bit different
than most medical device or biotech
companies because they're often founded
around like a specific asset, like a
a patent or some specific piece of IP
that they're going to spin out of a
university or maybe something that the
founders have worked on. We weren't like
that. We did We had a couple ideas at
the beginning. Um we had this like
neural engineering-centric view of
healthcare. We had a specific um BCI
probe idea and and biohybrid. And we had
a sense that the most valuable thing
that we could build in the near term was
a retinal prosthesis. And we thought
that the time was there like the
technology was all there that that would
be possible circa 2021. And that was
also further from stuff that I had
worked on before, and so it felt like a
a good thing for us to to kind of go
explore. I think we took this very
fairly first principles approach. And
you have to be careful with first
principles in biology because first
principles are not enough in biology.
Like they'll get you very far in many
other areas of engineering, but in
biology, you also have to understand
like what did evolution actually do.
And there's a lot of other nuance there.
But, in this case, we we looked at the
retina. There were kind of reasons,
intuitions to think that past that would
be much harder. And so, in the retina,
you've got this 2 by 2 matrix. You've
got a choice of do you If you've lost
the rods and cones, do you stimulate the
bipolar cells or the optic nerve cells?
And do you do it electrically or with
the technique called optogenetics?
And we just went and explored all four
quadrants of that. We uh very quickly
figured out that stimulating the the
optic nerve cells is very difficult for
these reasons. You end up with this like
1 million degree of freedom calibration
that you have to do per patient that
like can't be done in in practice. And
so that led us to the bipolar cells,
which was before this compression. And
so then their question was, do you want
to stimulate them electrically or using
optogenetics? And we developed both. And
so we have a state of the art
optogenetic gene therapy in house.
Published a paper last fall on on the
world's most sensitive optogenetics
optogenetic proteins. These are proteins
that you can express in a neuron to make
a neuron that is not normally light
sensitive responsive to light. But the
drawback was that the conventional
optogenetic proteins take like a bright
laser to activate them. And so what we
were able to do were find optogenetic
proteins that are sent so sensitive that
they're sensitive to like indoor office
lighting. And so this you could use in
very different ways. And then we could
target them to the bipolar cells. But
that's still has like 5 to 7 years of
clinical translation away if it ends up
working. There's a bunch of pitfalls it
could run into along the way.
And then we also um just surveyed the
world to see what was the state of the
art for the best out there in um in
electrical stimulation. And there was
this technology that had been invented
at Stanford about a decade ago that a
small company in Europe had been uh kind
of developing in the meantime. And we
got convinced that that was the right
way to go. And so we acquired them a few
years ago. And this was kind of all from
this like bird's eye view of if you want
to restore vision in the retina, kind of
how would you do that? What are the
promising approaches? Narrow that down.
And And that brought us to here. That's
insane. That's so cool. I wanted to jump
to your start and tech broadly. I mean,
did you start in bio and software
engineering? Like, you know, what was
your sort of journey into what you're
doing now, which is I mean, giving
people blind sight is the wildest thing.
People watching might be asking
themselves like, well, you know, I hear
a lot about B2B SaaS, but you know, how
do I actually become uh something more
like you? I was certainly doing software
and my deepest hard skill is software.
Um my I have a degree in biomedical
engineering, but I grew up programming.
And so I was doing that well before I
was doing any any biotech stuff. My
parents tell me a story about how I um
sat on the floor of a Barnes & Noble and
cried until they bought me a learn
Visual Basic book. I was always
interested in the brain. I was
definitely inspired by science fiction.
Um The Matrix had a big impact on me.
Um both because the idea of this like
world of bits was just so alluring for
for a bunch of like fundamental reasons.
Like when I look around at at the world,
like it's hard to build things. Um space
is constrained. It's like Earth is
small. The resources are intensely
contested. The like space is large. The
speed of light is low. Like you don't
have any of those constraints in in the
machine. And so if you could simulate a
world, it kind of anything was possible
there. But then
also if you then kind of turn that
inside out, if you realize that you can
build this and that you couldn't tell
the difference, then the corollary of
that was the must be like the thing that
matters is the brain.
And if you can engineer the brain and
support the brain, then kind of all the
rest of it is replaceable. And that just
seemed like a kind of a fairly deep
insight. That was not being born out in
the world in the way that it seemed like
like it should be. Some of it is um
if you can surround that consciousness
with
like the correct inputs. Yeah, I mean
this also gets into questions of like
what is consciousness? Like the how does
the brain create our experience? There's
this meme out there that BCI is an
artificial intelligence adjacent story.
Um and that the goal is to I mean you
have to merge humans and machines. And I
do think that there's something to that.
But I think in the more immediate thing
here is that I see BCI as really a
longevity like health care adjacent
story. If the end of the quest of
artificial intelligence are super
intelligent machines, then I think the
end of the BCI quest are actually
conscious machines. It might turn out
that there's actually no measurement
that we can take that will tell us if
something is conscious or not or what
it's like. And the only thing that you
can actually know on that is your own.
And so if that's the case, then to study
consciousness we will need to use brain
computer interfaces to like see it for
ourselves.
And once you've developed that, then I
think that you kind of can understand
the fundamental physics of what's
happening there, whether that's new
fundamental physics or it's emergent in
some way. But if you can learn how to
build like kind of understand whatever
the brain is taking advantage of that
our universe supports, then eventually
you get super intelligent conscious
machines that we can be part of through
these these ultra high bandwidth
connections. I think that's a very
different narrative than how people
usually think about BCI today. I mean
we're at the beginning of that, right?
Oh yeah, we're at the very beginning of
that.
>> The current trial that you have, I mean
it's
low it's relatively low bandwidth, but
it's going to get much higher bandwidth.
And then I mean like anything you sort
of bootstrap with the thing that works,
which I think you know what what you
have is a clear breakthrough as it is.
And then if you look at like the PC
revolution for instance, it's like could
you believe that all of this that we
have today started with like a little
blue box like in Altair.
>> It still takes some suspension of
disbelief because I think biotech has
just been so incremental. Like it's been
so like there's there's been big
advances, but at the same time these
time constants historically, I mean you
could easily spend 10 years on something
that feels very incremental. And I think
that one of the things that's so
exciting about what's happening now is
that no longer really feels so
incremental to me. To me it feels like
we're firmly in like the takeoff era
now. Like something new has happened on
Earth. But I think it's also important
to remember that this didn't start in
like 2019 or 1999. It started in the
late 1800s with the industrial
revolution. Just a few years before the
industrial revolution really kicked off.
I mean life was more or less unchanged
in a fundamental sense for several
thousand years. And they didn't really
even have like the concept of progress
in many ways.
And I don't think there's any way they
could have imagined like the way that
their life would have changed over the
course of the like first 10 15 years of
the steam engine. And that is how I feel
like looking at the next 15 years right
now. Yeah. I mean, so we have an
electrical stimulation right now, and
then at the same time you also do have a
bio-coupling. Like it's not purely just
electrical. Would you call it a V2 or
like sort of a next frontier? So this is
a totally different area. I mean, the
you might be able to use it for vision.
So one of the diseases that Prima our
electrical simulator doesn't treat is
glaucoma, which is loss of the optic
nerve itself. And so it's possible that
you could use our bio-hybrid BCI
technology for that, but that's not what
we're doing right now. There are three
elements to our pipeline at at Science.
The first is our work in the retina in
blindness, especially with the Prima
implant. The second is our work in
neural interfaces. And the third is is
um our work in perfusion with our vessel
program. The bio-hybrid neural
interfaces, the idea here is like if
your brain is a bunch of neurons, like
how would how would nature solve this
problem? Like we often look to nature
for inspiration. Evolution is a way
better engineer than than we are, at
least when dealing with biology. I think
the intuition here kind of started from
your brain is is composed of two
hemispheres, and they kind of process
different halves of the world
separately, but you don't experience two
hemispheres or two hemi-fields, we would
say. You experience one integrated
moment. And this is there's a cable that
connects the two hemispheres of the
brain called the corpus callosum. It's
about 200 million fibers.
And
I was thinking like if nature wanted to
build a ultra-high bandwidth
brain-to-brain connection, like what
would how did or if it wanted to make a
new cranial nerve? So instead of having
an optic nerve or vestibular cochlear
nerve, it wanted to have like the
internet nerve. Like how would nature
solve this problem? Is it would grow
like a new nerve. It would have a new
fiber bundle with a USB port at the end.
So the intuition here is like
if your brain is a bunch of neurons,
what happens if I culture some neurons
on your neurons? Do they Like when you
do that in in a lab, the neurons will
typically grow together and wire up and
form new biological connections.
And so we have an approach to the device
where we seed our the implant with
living neurons, these heavily engineered
stem cell derived neurons that we've
created. Are they related to your own
neurons or No, so really interestingly,
this is actually one of the deep areas
of research. So we
there's it's one cell line and the
probably single deepest area of of of IP
on this is that we've hidden them from
the immune system.
So we're one of a a really small number
of companies that have I think like
pretty convincing what we call
hypoimmunogenic stem cells. You don't
need to manufacture it per patient which
would be really expensive and take much
longer. We've got this hypoimmunogenic
um stem cell derived engineered neuron
that we load into the device in a dish.
And then that kind of gets stuck there
and then you engraft this onto the
brain. So we don't um we don't place any
wires into the brain. We also don't need
to genetically modify the like your
brain. Um some of the other ideas out
there for example using optogenetics or
things like ultrasound, this requires
using a gene therapy to genetically
modify the neurons in your brain which
first of all that's like a one-way door
and if it goes wrong that can go really
wrong. Whereas here because we're adding
the only thing that has been edited are
the graft cells that we add and if if
those die off then like you're really
not worse off than you were before for
the most part. Um but it comes with the
potential of growing throughout the
brain forming biological connections all
over the place. Um and I mean that's
what we've seen in in the animal models.
That's not in humans yet. Have you seen
James Cameron's Avatar movies?
Definitely.
>> Like you know the ponytails that the
aliens have? That's how I think about it
basically. It's like it's a big new
cranial nerve with a connector at the
end. I think that's actually the
the Avatar queue I think is like a
pretty direct reference for how I think
about our biohybrid neural interfaces.
So earlier you were saying sort of this
how do we find a USB port? I mean
obviously in Avatar that's
you one of the manifestations in the
blue creatures. The optic nerve in a way
is like a port.
And then, you know, jumping to
Neuralink,
when you were co-founding it, that, you
know, sort of enters the brain and then,
you know, there is no not necessarily
like an obvious port. Like, how do you
think about that? You know, where where
do you attach and how does it work? And
what did what did you learn from
Neuralink that you know, was useful
here? Well, I mean, a lot of what I
learned from Neuralink was I just like
the
in many ways it was kind of the ultimate
startup PhD. And so, that was more about
like how do you execute a technically
complex company that requires this type
of like multi-disciplinary team and
infrastructure. Like, I'm very curious
from those days, like what was the V1?
And then, you know, there's a hypothesis
and then, you know, the outcome and
then, here like the outcome is very very
awesome with science so far, not done,
obviously. Yeah, when you think about
the brain, like cuz I'm I remember it
being like totally magical to me, like
what is like how do you even understand
what the brain's doing? Like, what is
like what language is it speaking? How
do we understand what's going on there?
That seems like impossibly complicated.
The way that I would think about like
the brain from this information
processing perspective is the brain is
full of these these things that we call
representations. And so, you can have a
representation of like hand activity.
So, there's like a like a geometric
object in the brain. Like, if you record
from some neurons, then when your finger
is is like held open, a neuron will be
firing. When it's closed, another neuron
will be firing. There's neurons that
kind of correspond to every possible
state here. And often in primary primary
motor cortex, which is where many of the
other BCI companies record from, primary
motor cortex is a couple synapses, often
two synapses from the muscle. So, it
projects all the way from the top of the
head down to the spine and then, there's
another synapse from the spine out to
the muscle.
And so, the representation that you get
in primary motor cortex
is kind of easy to understand because it
looks like like it it directly
corresponds to things that we can easily
reason about like hand state and
specifically often joint joint torques.
One of the things that I like to do
sometimes with the LLMs is like I'll
pick like a neuron to start from. For
example, like the retinal ganglion cell
and I'll be like, "Okay, go forward one
synapse. Like what are all of the cells
that we're connected to?" I'll pick
another one and be like, "Okay, go
forward one synapse. Like what are all
the cells that we're connected to?" Just
kind of kind of walk through the brain.
And each generation of model the your
ability to do this gets better. But one
of the things that you see is that when
you're close to like an input or an
output like a muscle or a cochlear hair
cell or a retinal ganglion rod or cone,
like in these cases we think of the
representations as being concrete
because they correspond to things that
are intuitive for us like colors and
like image intensities or frequencies of
sound or
uh muscle control.
But as you go deeper into the brain, it
very quickly kind of blows up into these
very abstract things. And so
part of the brain called the
inferotemporal cortex where the
representation that it has is
a map of face like a map of objects or a
map of another area right next to it is
a map of faces. We can call it this like
map of object space. It's a normal
representation of general objects.
There's like one point you can think of
it as a long list of numbers and there's
some point in that that's like a vase.
There's some point that's like the
Eiffel Tower. There's some point that's
a car. There's some point that's a
person. There's some point that's like a
zebra. And as you move around in this on
this like manifold, you get um kind of
the percept of any possible object. And
there's millions of neurons there that
are representing this
like this space of possible objects that
the brain could be identifying. Sounds
like latent space. It is a latent space,
exactly. And so there's this huge
unification going on between AI and and
neuroscience. And you know, one of the
most interesting things is that um when
you train AI models like like image
models and even language models,
the representations that you get inside
them look a lot like the representations
you see in the brain. Fascinating. And
so this is like a real hint that the AI
people
>> that's really good on the right track.
Yeah, no, I mean the the whole idea that
like there's these things that are like
stochastic parrots or glorified auto
completes, like these people just don't
know what they're talking about. Many
people in neuroscience have gone over to
AI because they're basically still doing
neuroscience, but it's just way easier
to do it on the models. It sounds like
it's very good news for you in that like
there is actually some kind of latent
space mapping and then the job of
science in terms of being sort of like
the API to the brain. Totally. Exactly.
>> like entirely possible.
>> The neural activity that you when you
record neural activity from the brain,
this is just another this is just
another latent. And if you can translate
this into another model, then you can do
we think really cool stuff with that. So
you have input now and then you're
earlier you're saying I mean a lot of
the earlier BCI
experiments involved figuring out like
motor So motor decoding is kind of this
very classic task and you can do it in
any number of ways,
but getting like cursor control or
keyboard control in a human, that was
first done in the late 90s. And so I
think a lot of the BCI companies are
doing that now just because like we know
it definitely works.
We know that there's some patient need
and it really is just like an
electronics problem. Like if you can
shrink the electronics so that they're
small enough and low power enough so
they they don't dissipate a lot of heat
so you can close the skin, then that is
like a big advance and that I think is
really the first thing Neuralink has
done. There were prior devices that
could do that type of motor decoding,
but they required a connector coming out
through the scalp. And as long as the
skin is open, there's a risk that like a
an infection will climb down that and
then you're going to have a really bad
day. So being able to close the skin is
really important, but that was really
difficult because it required really
efficient electronics that were small
enough to fully implant and also were
power efficient enough that they
wouldn't get hot. And so I think the
thing that made this possible is is what
we call the smartphone dividend. Like
basically I couldn't have done this on
its own, but Apple and Samsung and
others have poured epic amounts of money
onto making these types of electronics
exist in the world so that people like
us can use them. And then this feels
like you have um a really significant
advantage around being a bio-hybrid. I
mean, there are all these issues uh
famously about you know, sort of trying
to electrically stimulate uh brain cells
for a long period of time. Yeah, I mean,
I think that there are different
products here. I think that on the like
on the one hand, I mean, I that's why
I'm doing it. I think that's a good
idea. On the other hand, I think some
people look at this and they're like,
that is now you have a cell to deal
with. Like you took a device and you
added a bunch of biology to it. And I
think we have a good handle on it.
That's why we're doing it, but there's
definitely a trade-off there.
And I think that BCI we're going to come
to see is not is not a specific product
in the way that like pharma is not a
product. I think there are going to be a
bunch of BCI companies going after
different applications where different
types of probes will make sense. And I
think bio-hybrid in particular is only
really necessary for some of like the
very highest-end
things. And on the flip side, it will be
harder to deploy for many other
important medical needs and important
applications along the way. Um
and will probably be a little back
loaded relative to some other things in
in that scalable impact. So earlier you
were referring to uh you know, there's a
third part of science, which is vessel.
Talk more about that cuz it feels like
you're applying a lot of the first
principles thinking that got you here to
this thing that is also like pretty
pretty groundbreaking. So this is this
is our smallest project. So there's this
field of perfusion. You can think of it
as they're kind of like heart and lung
machines. And I I was first clued into
the need here about a decade ago when I
read an article in in a medical journal
called The Lancet, which was this case
study of a the 17-year-old living in
Boston who was waiting for a lung
transplant. And while he was waiting for
this lung transplant, he was being kept
alive on an on an ECMO circuit. ECMO is
is acronym for extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation. That's fancy word for like
heart lung machine. And in his case, his
heart was okay, but his lungs had
failed. And so this was keeping him
alive. And after a while on the
transplant list, he was diagnosed with a
complication that made him no longer a
priority recipient for donor lungs. And
so they took him off the transplant
list. And so this article is kind of
about the ethical dilemmas of like what
do we do with him? But he's alive.
>> Because he's Yeah, he's like playing
video games. He's doing homework,
hanging out with friends. If we turn off
the circuit, he will immediately die.
Well, don't do that then.
>> On the other hand, he's consuming a half
a million dollar a month ICU suite.
And so there's these quotes in this
article from the doctors being like,
"His family and friends derive benefits
from his continued survival." And how
this raised fairness questions because
if we like support him for a longer
period of time, then we might have to do
this for everybody. And so I saw this
and I'm like, "Those are great
questions. I need answers to those
questions." Because there seemed to be
this big gap between what was
technically possible and what was
economic to deploy for some
>> reason. I mean, that's exactly what
being a founder is about. Yeah, so I saw
this and I there's this database of
medical literature called PubMed. And I
realized that if I searched PubMed for
the phrase ECMO ethical dilemma, there
were multiple pages of results. So this
was not like a one-off. And when I
looked at this literature,
there it was often a lot of it was
talking about how ECMO shouldn't be used
as a as a quote bridge to nowhere. And
how many doctors were basically trying
to discourage families from like even
pursuing it in these critical care cases
because it would create this bridge to
nowhere and then like what do we do? And
it creates these dilemmas.
And then I went and asked some some doc
This was a long time ago. This was
almost a decade ago now. Like, "Oh,
well, like why don't we consider it as a
destination?" Like that's the phrase is
like a destination therapy versus a
bridge therapy. What if the technology
just isn't good enough yet? And it needs
to be improved.
>> to be improved, definitely. But that
wasn't even the response that I got. The
response that I got was just like
shouting and throwing things. And so I
was like, "Something feels wrong here."
But I wasn't really in a position then
to pursue it. But this was always the
thing that was kind of
I saw that there was a really important
unification here. It also this the same
fundamental type of technology has
really transformed organ
transplantation. So, there they call it
NMP, normothermic machine perfusion,
rather than ECMO, but it's the same
idea.
Um so, 20 years ago, if you needed a
like a kidney transplant or a liver, if
the car crash happened at 3:00 in the
morning, the surgery would happen at
4:00 or 5:00 in the morning, but now it
gets scheduled for like the afternoon or
the next day. And over 75% of liver
transplants in the US use this type of
perfusion technology now. But, like the
the systems that exist for this are like
$500,000. They can only be moved by
private jet. Like one of the big
companies in this space, it turns out
that their like private jet logistics
business is bigger than their medical
device business.
And it just like there was just like
clearly a engineering that could refine
this. And so, we looked at this and we
thought like, "Well, what if you could
refine this to the point where you could
check a kidney as luggage on a United
flight to the East Coast?" Or what if
you could make a thing that that
17-year-old could have brought home as a
backpack? Um instead of just what they
did in his case is they stopped changing
the oxygenator filter, and a week later
it clotted and he died. And that's what
happened. There are other problems here,
like like being able to close the skin
around the brain implant. You also need
to make it so that the the tubes that
connect the the blood supply to the
circuit can the skin can heal to it, so
that's not an infection risk. You can
Otherwise, you have to clean it very
carefully. But, just overall, there's
this huge gap between like clearly like
where the scientific breakthroughs like
were put were pointing and like what was
being done. Like I think I think that
people don't appreciate is that in many
cases, like there's like if you you want
to be a brain in a vat, like this
basically already exists. Like you can
keep a like an end-life
like patient alive in an ICU almost
indefinitely. But, this is very poor
quality of life. And so, patients like
ask for that to be withdrawn. Like
nobody wants to be basically like a
brain in like a hospital bed connected
to tubes. You need to be able to provide
a high quality of life. And so, you need
something that people can like live
with. And I think to see this like if
you can get vision, hearing, balance,
motor control,
the ability to like be out in the world
and doing things. I just saw this like
very fundamental way to reframe the
problems of medicine here. And so that,
like I said, like at Science even though
there's these several different
projects, I really see them as like as
one project over the next 10 years. So,
you know, started as an engineer,
first principles thinking, which often
now is
quite associated with Elon Musk.
How did Neuralink start? How did you get
to know him? And how did all of this
sort of come together? Because I first
met you when you were
doing Y Combinator many years ago, my
first stint at YC. So, I
um
got an email one night in early 2016
from Sam.
Uh it said the subject line crazy
question, be like Elon's starting a
brain computer interface company, like
who should who should run it? And I
assumed they're talking to a lot of
people. And my first reaction was
actually I I had some friends at MIT
that I thought I'm like, well, these
guys are really smart, you should talk
to them. But then like an hour later I
was like, wait a second. And so I I
emailed him back and I'm like, can I
like
And uh Tim introduced me to Elon, and
Elon was going around he already had the
idea like on his own that he wanted to
start a company and he had the name
Neuralink. I also think that he heard my
name from enough people that he was
talking to at the time.
And kind of over the second half of
2016, there was just this group of
people that was kind of some some degree
ever shifting that would meet once a
week or so on the evening.
And that snowballed into into Neuralink.
And of the the initial group, a bunch of
them were people that I knew from Duke.
So Tim Hanson, the guy who had
originally had the the sewing machine
idea, he was in the lab that I came from
at Duke. He was a a grad student before
um I was an undergrad working for him.
And then the professor that he and one
of our other friends had gone to at
UCSF. And then a collaborator of theirs,
it was kind of a very small community.
What was that like initially to talk
about the idea of like, you know,
connecting a computer to a human being's
brain? Elon, he he I mean, he saw what
was coming in AI like very much more
clearly than many other people much
earlier. And I think the implications of
like if like you got a this this can't
be a separate thing from humanity and
that needs to merge somehow. I think
that implication was just very clear to
him. And so that was the genuine
motivating factor of like how do we make
it so that this allows us to upgrade
humanity rather than get left behind. I
mean, we if you look at the natural
history of Earth,
um it's not like this is a totally
speculative thing. Humanity has totally
dominated the planet and and we keep our
closest living relatives in glass boxes
so they don't go extinct. And so there's
a real history here of of greater
intelligence being very dangerous. Like
in the beginning there wasn't like a
specific technical idea necessarily, but
there was that motivating force and then
the idea was we'd pull together like the
smartest group of people that you could
find and and enough resources to to do
whatever made sense. And eventually got
consensus around what you see now is the
uh
as the thin film polymer threads. You're
one of the best examples of someone who
came from a pure software world and then
went into hard tech and now is actually
doing real breakthrough type of research
and work that is also commercializable.
The people watching, they might be on a
similar track. Knowing what you know
now, like what would you tell to the
sort of 2016 version of yourself? So I
think there's two things. The first is
um like the thing that I did and then
there's the thing I didn't do. The thing
I think was I had I had a a clear sense
of what I wanted and then I was very
high agency towards that. When I was in
college, I knew that I wanted to work in
brain computer interfaces. There was a
great lab that was doing that work at
Duke where I went. And I was pretty
persistent in figuring out how to like
place myself into that lab. It was in
the medical center. They didn't usually
take undergrads. They're like it took me
a little while to get in there. I
eventually figured out that I could
sneak in by taking an independent study
in the chemistry department that would
like be a back door into this like
primate neuroscience group. But then
really most of my education in college
happened in that lab. So yeah, I I grew
up programming and my my deepest hard
skill is software, but I I've been doing
primate brain computer interface like
closed loop neural decoding stuff since
2008. And so that was just like you had
to be pretty high agency and and like
um persistent in trying to like if
like follow through on that, but that
only works if you have a sense of where
you want to go. And so the first is like
figure out what you want. The thing I
didn't do was my So after college I
started a company um called
Transcriptic. That was a the it was a
robotic cloud laboratory. So the idea
was I mean I also in college had the
experience of working in a synthetic
biology group where
I needed to go press a button on a
device called a plate reader every 3
hours for 3 days to take a measurement
that I wanted. And I was like
in software like this doesn't we
wouldn't do this. Like this just clearly
doesn't make sense. Like we would
automate it. This was also the time when
AWS was just emerging and cloud
computing was becoming a thing and it
seemed very obvious to me that instead
of every researcher having their own lab
and spending millions of dollars for all
their equipment and then like needing to
press these buttons like what we should
build is a central robotic cloud
laboratory that expose APIs that
scientists can use to run experiments
over the internet. I did that raised a
bunch of money the when I stepped down
as CEO in in 20 uh
in the 2017 to to join Neuralink I mean
had millions of dollars in revenue. Like
I felt like we got it to kind of an
early promising point. Um and then since
then over the last decade um it that I
don't that promise was not fulfilled.
That was still that was hard mode. That
was like a slog. That era from 2012 to
like 2016 I strongly identified with Ben
Horowitz's essay The Struggle. And I
think the thing that I should have done
earlier is go work for somebody like
Elon cuz that's just like so
dramatically leveled up like my ability
to do this and and know how the game is
played and
um and I think that often you'll see
these really promising kids who are just
like I'm going to do it myself. Like I
don't want to work for anybody else. I'm
going to start my own company. I'm going
to blast through it. And like sometimes
that works. Like who am I to say? But I
can tell you that very often
startup like running a startup is an
oral tradition. There have been a couple
nucleating times in history where like a
really remarkable group of people have
kind of figured it out from scratch.
Like I think PayPal was like this. But
almost always beyond that it's like it's
an oral tradition that you passed down
from one of like this handful of Silicon
Valley cultures that can make a huge
difference on the trajectory of your
career to get that right when you're 20
versus when you're 26 or 28. Well,
Science is the next and it sounds like
you're assembling you know, you've
already assembled a really accomplished
crew of people and then what we've
learned from startups over the years is
that when something works like more and
more resources, more and more smart
people sort of come together and then
you know, zooming out that's what we
really hope happens
a whole lot more in exactly the spaces
that you're in right now. So you know,
Science sounds like one of those places
to go to right now.
>> cool. Yeah, I mean I'm I definitely feel
pretty lucky that I get to get I get to
do this because it's such an
interdisciplinary problem and the to
innovate on it you need all these
different areas and really great people
in each of them. But the same time it's
just the the things that you can do
today were unimaginable a few years ago
and and yeah, I mean I think that I
think we have the best team in the in
the field. So I mean next 10 20 years of
you know, Science BCI like
I guess where do you see this going and
you know, what are you most excited
about? I have this like event horizon at
2035 now. Like when I was earlier in my
life I always kind of prided myself on
the ability to see the future.
And that is the next few years I think I
have a sense of but like by 2035 it's
just like impo- there's like I can't see
past it. I think it is very possible
that the first people to live to a
thousand are alive right now. And I
think it might be many more people than
you think. It's not going to be like one
or two people on Earth today.
Earth as a whole is at a
not not unique like this moments in
history like have happened all the time
before. But right now it's a time of
exceptional change. This is going to be
really really influenced by the
technological changes that are happening
and I think the twin plot lines of brain
computer interfaces and artificial
intelligence. People are are beginning
to get that artificial intelligence is
real is still not priced in. People
still don't appreciate it. I agree. But
they really don't get what's coming in
and what's possible with brain computer
interfaces and those are really parallel
but very distinct stories. Intelligence
is going to become widely available for
those that have the agency to deploy it.
And I am
generally pretty optimistic about that.
Like I don't
my my P doom is pretty it's not zero but
it's it's not 50% as well below that.
Yeah, I don't know if we'll have cured
um
all disease. In fact, I definitely
wouldn't use that term. I wouldn't say
we'll have cured all diseases by 2035.
But I think that there will be kind of
new lateral options that that totally
reframe how we think about the human
condition on that time scale. And
totally reconfiguring basically that
sort of interface between computers and
humans. It's Yeah, and humans and each
other. And if it a brain computer
interface is equivalent to a a
brain-to-brain interface in many cases.
This takes you to like totally new
territory. Max, thank you so much for
joining us. Thanks for building the
future and we can't wait to see what you
build next. Thanks, Gary.