Title: From Pivot Hell To $1.4 Billion Unicorn
Video ID: 5WN8bfG06Hk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WN8bfG06Hk
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-12-10T15:00:19Z
Duration: PT38M47S
Views: 30481
Likes: 539
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1356

Description:
In just a few years, James Hawkins took PostHog from an idea hacked together right before YC's W20 deadline to a unicorn powering product analytics for thousands of teams.

In this episode of Founder Firesides, he sits down with YC's Brad Flora to talk about surviving six months of "pivot hell," why open-source analytics was the breakthrough, and how PostHog grew from fighting for its first users to launching full product lines. James also shares what he's learned about momentum, staying close t

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm here today with James Hawkins, CEO
and founder of Post Hog from the YC
Winter20 batch. James is here hot off
the news of raising a 75 million series
Z round of funding at a $ 1.4 billion
valuation, making Postto the latest YC
unicorn. Today we're going to talk about
how Postto got started, how they pulled
off what I think is one of the best YC
pivots of the last decade, and how they
use attention and humor to compete with
not just other tech companies, but with
everything out there for attention.
Welcome, James. Thank you for having me.
James, could you tell us what is Post
Talk? Explain it to us a little bit.
>> Sure. So with YC, I always feel like
this is my homework being marked by the
teacher. Um, we help users to debug
their product to ship features faster
through kind of things like feature
flags and so on. And we help keep all
their kind of customer and product data
in one stack.
>> And tell us a little bit about um the
state of the company, how how big it is.
You guys are pretty big these days. G
give our give our viewers a snapshot of
what's going on at Post Talk.
>> Sure. Yeah. So, we're about 160 people.
Um, we're around 300,000 customers
across like free a lot of free customers
and paid. um we have several thousand
paid. We have I think 16 or 17 products
kind of in production or um in
development. They're all at different
kind of stages. And we've been I guess
like at the moment the main thing we're
doing and the reason kind of why we did
a lot of raising this year. Um we're
pushing very hard on getting more
products still out of the door. So
instead of kind of going up market,
we're going just across more of kind of
the customer data that people are
generating. Um, and we're automating a
ton of things through AI, which has been
a long and arduous pro process. Um, but
we're starting to get to the point where
I'm starting to get proud of what we've
achieved so far, but I still kind of
feel like ah, we haven't got started
yet. There's a lot more to go. Um, which
I don't think is a feeling it will ever
go probably, but um, yeah, it's like
proving a lot of fun and we're just
starting to scale up pretty aggressively
now. Like we're I think we start at 70
people this year. Um, and so we're
supposed to be about 200ish by the end
of the year or something. So it's time
to get properly and to kind of scale up
maybe at this point.
>> So you've got this team, you've got all
these customers, you have all these
products that you're developing and
improving on, but what what was the
initial product that Post HTog started
with? What was that the first thing that
you guys brought to market as Post Hog?
>> Sure. So yeah, the first thing that
worked for us, we had a bunch of pivots
before um was self-hosted product
analytics because we pivoted so many
times and every time we had to set up
product analytics over and over again
and we're just getting frustrated having
to implement it. I think we found that
there's an awful lot of really strong
competition. Um, but we felt all the
products were built for kind of product
managers to force engineers to go
implement. But as like reasonably
technical, especially my co-founders, a
very technical co-founder was just
getting annoyed at like I can't I want
to write SQL. I want to see the data
underneath. I would like to keep this in
my infrastructure so I don't lose data
due to ad blockers. So we thought, okay,
we think there's room for a self-hosted
alternative. And we also we spent some
time talking to potential customers. Um,
and we found that quite a lot of people
had self-built their analytics stack and
we're maintaining this kind of junky
system which we felt if we can
productize something like that because
new infrastructure and we could see this
working quite well. Um, so yeah, we
started with just open source product
analytics on hacker news. We spent like
the last four weeks of the batch uh
desperately trying to get that out of
the door and then we hit like we
actually we didn't really pivot we
iterated I would say afterwards and now
we're all cloud-based with multi-roduct
but that was the thing that landed um
for us finally I think of postg um well
there's this meme um among founders of
pivot hell and it's a thing that YC
founders talk about a lot where you're
going from idea to idea to idea and
you're trying to find something that's
going to work and you guys not only came
out of pivot hell and have built this
awesome
But what you built was literally forged
in the fires of pivot hell,
>> right? Like while doing these pivots,
you had this pain that only came because
you were doing the pivots and trying to
do them at a high level, setting up the
analytics over and over again. Tell us a
little bit about how you guys actually
got to YC and and started this journey
of of pivoting and finding startup ideas
that might work. my co-founder uh quit.
We used to work together. Um and when I
heard news that he was leaving, um I had
also been thinking about leaving and
that kind of triggered me to go, okay, I
want to do my own thing. Um so I made
sure to grab him and instead of getting
him to go off and work in um another
startup, whatever, I thought, hey, let's
just do our own thing.
>> And when he when he was leaving, was he
leaving to join another company? Was he
leaving to start something?
>> Yeah, I think he was actually trying to
get a job at Facebook at the time. He
was doing an incremental kind of career
move. Um and I think I showed up being
like I think I have this idea that we'll
probably have product market fit for in
a couple of weeks time.
>> Of course. Of course they are.
>> Of course. Yeah. It's only a hop skip
and a jump away and then we can just you
know um I had like a I'd created a list
of problems I'd encountered
professionally thinking okay I should
solve a problem I've had myself and we
started going through the list but we
thought we wanted to bootstrap
initially. So the two of us were just
like working out of coffee shops. One of
the main problems we found was every
time we went to see a customer, we'd
have to buy another round of coffee. And
so we'd often end up getting like
whatever the coffee equivalent of wasted
is basically. Um so eventually we we did
this for about 6 months and we worked
through an average of one idea every
like five probably average about five or
six weeks.
>> Do you remember what any of those ideas
were?
>> Yeah. Um so the initial thing we tried
to build was a sales territory
management product. So, I used to run a
sales I was VP of sales and I felt that
like in sales, you're literally wasting
over 90% of your time because deals
don't usually win. They don't usually
close. Like they usually just float
around and gradually get killed off. And
we thought if we get better at not
focusing on deals that are closing, but
on the ones that aren't closing, getting
a bit more ruthless at using statistics
to pull them out of people's pipeline
and change the territory for the sales
team is what I thought might work. Um,
and it was just kind of really
complicated um to build and I think
because I'm much more technical than a
traditional sales leader would be, I
just think we built something kind of
complicated and I don't think our go to
market was right or anything. Um, yeah,
we had this idea, we built it. I think
the thing that was important or the
harsh lesson I learned was my co-founder
was building it. I was just trying to
get interesting prospects to buy it from
us. Um, so I had about I got through I
got about 15 sort of series B, C, D um,
sales leaders queued up saying they
wanted to use this. Well, they said they
wanted to use it. We got the first
version done in a couple of weeks. Send
them the link to create an account. Of
the 15 um 14 of them didn't even click
the link. One click the link and then
didn't create an account. And we're like
um it was like first good we should have
read the mom test was the we hadn't done
any of the user interviews correctly.
Um, but I also it made me feel that
building for sales people or sales
leaders in particular, I feel the signal
to noise ratio is pretty poor. Um,
because they're really quite willing to
hop on quick calls and are very very
positive and kind of very friendly
people. A little bit later it kind of
dawned on us that we think we'd be
better because we're not very good at
product. We're terrible at product
initially because we're kind of bad. We
need to deal with people that are what
they say is close to what they'll do.
And we felt that like natural problem
solver people like engineers or customer
support people probably would be a
better audience for us to work with
because out of all the many variables
you can get wrong. Like it might be like
your product's incredible but you're
terrible at explaining what it does.
You'll still fail. Um and we thought
that okay one of the variables we can
remove from this equation is the person
being a little bit um easier to read
basically. And so that was a big part of
why we wanted to build something dev
tooly later on was that sort of
realization.
>> Um but yeah that was the first thing
that we worked on. And so when you guys
did Y Combinator, the product that you
had was another pivot was having
developers take surveys about technical
debt when they would submit a poll
request.
>> And so you'd already done a few products
by that point.
>> You came into YC with another one. Did
you guys have a like how did you kind of
keep your spirits up or how did you
track your trajectory? Did you feel you
were getting stronger or better or
closer to the target as you were going
through these pivots? I would like to
think that was true. I'm not sure it
was. We didn't reflect on that. We
should have asked like are we actually
getting better each time around? Um I
think we should have run a retrospective
basically. I don't think we actually
were getting that much better each time.
There are definitely some things that
were consistently very important to us
though. Like for example, we went full
gas on each idea. Like we didn't sort of
like call it in. Like we would go in
person to every single customer that was
remotely interested, we would go in
person to go meet. Like we started in uh
England and came to San Francisco to do
YC. like we'd catch like a bunch of
trains and buses to get to a customer in
some random place and like we would put
the effort in to go really push it
because then kind of what happens when
we started charging for a lot of these
products. You would find that oh I'm not
failing this cuz I don't have a
relationship or like I'm kind of
friendly with this customer at this
point and they still don't want to buy
from us. This is a really good sign this
product isn't solving the problem. This
really demonstrates to me it's a nice to
have. Like in my previous job, um, we
used to sell comp like enterprise
software for millions of dollars a year.
And I can remember multiple times
thinking I'm having to work kind of as
hard to sell a like $50 a month SAS
subscription as I was to sell like a
$100,000 a year plus deal in my last
job.
>> I know that I've tried really hard. Um,
and so I can rule out one of the other
variables I guess is like, are you
actually trying as hard as you could be?
And we were. I think that helped us feel
confident enough to go this just isn't
working. So yeah, we just we worked very
hard. And it look I I remember it
feeling weird like on LinkedIn for
example I talk about like hey this is
what we're up to and it would be like
one week it was like some dev tool next
week it's a CRM thing. Um but we just
didn't care like we just threw ourselves
into each problem.
>> There's an aspect of shamelessness that
you have to have to just kind of keep up
the momentum and keep trying and not get
bogged down. I think it's easy for it to
feel kind of lame almost. Like yeah, you
have friends who are like in investment
banking or they have these like proper
careers and we're doing something that
just seems so kooky, but like that's the
bit I think that is a specific reason
why most people don't run companies
because that first bit is like all is so
existential and all over the place. I
think we just have faith that if we just
keep making the input we're looking at
is like are we making very regular real
progress? So on the ideas we'd often at
the start of the week be like okay by
the end of this week what is the list of
things we will feel good if we get them
all done and it would be something like
okay we want to do like 10 custom
meetings build these three big features
um and we just held ourselves to account
on a like very short cadence all the
time as people I think we got much
stronger at things like product much
later on once post dog had sort of taken
off but I think we were just like very
we just yeah put our heart into things
we're very fast that was kind of all we
needed I think realistically you guys
were working through these pivots maybe
getting better, maybe not. Trying to be
wholehearted, trying to be consistent,
trying to be really committed to the
bit, maybe as a comedian would say, when
you started with the open source product
analytics, what became the final pivot,
what signals did you get early on or
signs that maybe this is it, maybe we're
really on to something was a month
before YC demo day. Tell us a little bit
about how that unfolded.
>> Yeah, so I think um we had a slightly
higher level of excitement about this
idea ourselves. I think we had had a
couple of ideas where in our heart of
hearts we weren't that interested in
them. Like we were kind of doing them
because we like felt like we had to get
something to work. Um whereas I think
this one and we had an office hours here
and I can remember and we're like well
we're kind of thinking about building
this thing that will do two at the time.
We thought there are two things are
important. We thought we want to capture
all user data completely automatically.
Like we don't want anyone to have to set
up event tracking manually. We didn't
realize someone had already built this.
Um and that didn't turn out to be
particularly important. But then the
second thing we're like we want to be
able to self-host this thing so that it
can say your infra and we came out the
office hours I was going ah that's not
the right framing it's open source
product analytics then it's not just
about it being your infrastructure it's
also just like a whole vibe like I think
immediately we were like we feel very
confident I could see that really
landing on hacker news that we both my
both read it and it just felt like the
kind of thing you would see on the front
page so the level of excitement was a
little bit higher for us I do think it's
a bad idea though to like sometimes I
see other founders they're like I'm
waiting for an idea that I'm excited
about but I think The reality is for us
it's we had to just build a bunch of
things to find the thing we're excited
about. What we didn't do was like sit
cross-legged on the top of a mountain
waiting for inspiration.
>> Um so by trying a few things we started
going this idea just doesn't feel good.
But we know that because we have tried
it.
>> You had to find something in the middle
of what people want and what you're
excited about.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Um and so will I think
doing stuff gives you much stronger I
think it's like a Brian Armstrong quote
but like doing stuff gives you much
stronger signal more information. And
then I think when we started booking
interviews, it was a little bit easier
to get people to talk to us. Um, but the
big deal was on Hacker News when it was
just on the front page and had like it
wasn't the best ever. Like at the time
it was pretty good compared to what
happened before.
>> It was a good launch. We had a good
hacker news launch.
>> But if you look at it at like sort of
like 20 23 24 vintage hacking news
launches, it was very mediocre, but it
was enough to get an initial audience. I
I think um I because I go back to
people's old demo day slides a lot of
the times when helping batch founders
figure out what they should say. So I I
pull up the post hog slide every now and
then and I believe according to the
slide and I think it's true it was the
most uh upvoted dev tool hacker news
post of the year. So pretty good. I
remember being in the office hour you
probably shared the idea with a bunch of
people but I remember the first time I
heard it and it just made a lot of
sense. Uh there were a bunch of product
analytics uh companies out there but no
one had really gone all the way to make
this truly developer focused by going
open source. Um and so it just sounded
like something someone should try. Uh,
and uh, I wasn't that surprised that it
hit when it the way it did and was
really excited for you guys at the time.
So, okay. So, you had this um, you were
starting to get some users. You had to
go out and raise money for this thing at
demo day and you'd only been working on
it for a few weeks at that point. What
was that like? Like, how do you get your
conviction up to go, you know, pitch
investors about a product that's really
only a month old at this point? It was a
very mixed. Um, we at first we felt
really good. We're like, okay, it feels
like we can have this done in like two
days or three days. Slam dunk.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think we're coming in
going like, "Yeah, we've had a really
solid launch." I think we were still
buzzing a little bit after like oh it's
such a a feeling of kind of relief that
suddenly we've got something where it
just instantly the day we launched it
went from being a push basis to a pull
basis getting people interested like
suddenly it's just like we're trying to
service all these random problems or
feature requests and stuff we can see
coming in and so we went out to raise I
think very confident like we thought
we'd kind of be pushing quite big
valuation at the time and I think we
felt that we will have this done in just
a few days um but our the timing was
horrible because it was 2020 in March
And the same week basically co went from
being this somewhat niche thing to
changing the world and everyone just
suddenly pulled out. So we kind of went
from feeling like oh we've got like all
the fanciest VC firms in the world are
interested in this thing to everyone's
pulled out and we're now doing like
we're trying to get angel checks for
5,000 bucks a pop to try and get all the
way up to like raising a few million
dollars. This is going to take a long
time. Um so it was very peaky and we
also had a lot of stress over like we're
in the US still. My wife was at home and
pregnant and I was worried about getting
stuck in America and my co-founder left
and because he was also worried about
getting stranded, overstaying his visa
and stuff. So there was just all this
chaos kind of happening. We just kept
plugging away basically. Um I think it
was very easy to it would have been very
easy I think to get disheartened and it
was painful but we just didn't I guess
we just kept going um was the main
thing. And so we were doing angel checks
um happily taking 5K off of people um
until eventually we got um a proper term
sheet um and that led to another one and
then we um got the round done very
quickly and then the market completely
picked up like even just a few months
later end up doing like a series A like
a month after the seed round had closed
but I think the statistics are something
like
>> I think we met 160 different firms in
the seed round. I think for like if I
added up the total number of pe number
of firms I've met for the series A, B,
C, D, and E,
probably like 20 uh in total like 30 in
total. It's it was by far the hardest
round we had to raise. Uh but also we
sucked it. It's not just them market
like we sucked at pitching. We're trying
to people please I think too much. Um so
we would be like well they were like
what are you going to do with the money
and it's like well you know we'll like
kind of get some revenue. We'll build
some features which is very vanilla
feeling. Um, and we had a lot of people
rejecting us because they felt we were
too early. But the reality was it's
like, well, we're dealing with a lot of
these investors have never invested at
that time. They never invested in open
source at all. Like the vast majority
hadn't. Um, because it was quite it was
much more unusual then. And I started
realizing that I don't even believe that
we'd want to spend money across all
these areas. Like we actually just want
to go full all in on the open source
project for a while. Um, again, I think
that's very bad advice for something
that doesn't have competition that's
making lots of revenue. So be very
careful with something like that. But we
started getting much more opinionated
and that's what started that eventually
landing. Hey, like you're out of your
mind if you think we're going to go big
on like hiring a big sales team or
trying to go into the enterprise or
something like it's just about building
this like nice big inbound kind of
community. We think is the if we can't
do that nothing else will follow and we
need to make really establish that
properly. Um so yeah, we got much punch
here.
>> It's funny how that is. It's almost like
investors are pretty agnostic on what
the plan is. So long as there's a plan
>> and that you you're really passionate
about it and you've thought about it and
you're ready to go execute on it.
>> I think there's a Mark Benoff quote
which is something like um it's better
to be different than right. I think that
it's almost the equivalent here where I
think it's if you're trying to raise
money, it's better to have a plan that
than it is to necessarily be like
somewhat correct, like be either very
clearly right or wrong because you'll
learn something from that. So, that
round was really hard. You talked to 160
investors. It took months to get the
money. Yeah. Okay.
>> Fast forward to this this latest round
that you guys just raised. Obviously,
it's 5 years later. Things are very
different. The company's in a very
different place. You have revenue and
customers. What's it like to raise a $75
million round? You know, how is that
relatable to folks that maybe are out
there trying to raise the first money
for their company? What's that
experience like?
>> Yeah, perversely. It's easier. Uh like
we had um we spoke to one investor for
this round. We raised from Pete 15. Um
this one called Chelendra that is the
main partner, but also Anav um is
involved as well. The round before he
tried to take part in, we only had just
gotten to know him though, so we kind of
felt like we want to spend a bit longer
with you before we raised with you.
Basically, we did spend a little bit
more time with them because we liked him
as a person. They offered to do the next
round preemptively and at first we
thought it was a bad idea um because we
just felt we don't know how we would
spend this. We haven't spent like the
round before the round before almost.
But then at the same time what was
starting to happen was we were
getting increasingly confident on AI. Um
what actually happened was I went on
vacation and read um about some of the
motives for why some of the co-founders
built open eye in the first place and I
thought the reasoning was really
interesting. It was humans have a brain
um it's a physical object. We can
therefore build one basically and
there's no technical reason we can't
build ADI essentially. Then I just this
is nerdy reading but I started thinking
like what are the specific differences
between your brain and LMS today and I
kind of concluded there's a lot of
things that could be built but I don't
understand why they don't exist yet. So
I therefore think that AI will I don't
think it will flatten out like I think
the rate of improvement may vary but I
think over a long time frame it will be
incredibly important to the world. So I
got much more um bullish on its
importance and then thinking at work I'm
like okay I can definitely see a path
like I just spent some time reflecting
with my co I'm like okay how could this
shake out basically like should we
change our strategy if we both believe
this is this important so at the time we
were thinking about building like a CRM
a support platform all kinds of other
data customer data oriented products
>> and everything was kind of working but
we felt actually we can do so much more
in the realm of product at first like we
can build kind of product autonomy out
um so we want to go deeper within our
products that help you understand what
to build. So we wanted to work on like
at the moment we're working on like a
desktop app for example that ships pull
requests based on your customer data. So
it'll look across all your session
recordings or your analytics or your
error tracking your LM traces go hey
these are the issues we can see in your
customer base we literally fix them
whilst you're asleep. Um here are the
pull requests. So instead of like please
build me this feature it will be the
flow is pull based. So it's like hey
we've built these features based on
what's happening. um you can just
review, close, edit, merge them
depending what you want to speed up
development further. Um and we just were
like, hey, let's just go we want to be
able to go all in on this idea. Um and
so we raised to have just like the
comfort and the confidence. So a lot of
it psychological like I don't think
we'll manage to suspend it. Um but we
want that's kind of the point. It's like
this means that we can just fully
embrace um our product strategy and take
it bigger and just like increase the
size of swing that we're taking. Well,
and it sounds like what you're saying is
uh you're able to fully explore the
implications. Yeah. Of the original idea
of post hog, which is understand what's
happening in your product and what your
users are up to. And there's all this
stuff downstream of that like once you
understand it, then you can do these
things and take these actions. Yeah. Cuz
we started thinking like, okay, it's a
bit like if you're trying if your
customer is like a painting that you're
trying to understand. If you have one
data type, um it's a bit like seeing a
painting but only be able to see the
color of blue. You're not going to get a
nuance understanding of your customer.
Like looks like they're not using this
feature. we should email them to cross-
tell them the new feature we've just
built. But at the same time, your other
data might be telling you something
conflicting like they're really pissed
off in support right now and this is a
terrible time to automatically send them
an email or something. So we kind of
felt like and that's what a human would
do it today is you kind of look across
your tools and we thought oh we can
basically just build something that does
this. Um and so we set off trying to
build basically a product manager that's
a physical thing we can build it.
>> Yeah. We don't want to build something
that has like that we can't conceive of.
We want to build something that exists
but just like a better version. And we
were like well there's a human product
manager has product market fit like
companies buy those that is sort of
where the idea came from. Um so instead
of just building because normally our
strategy had been what are the products
have product market fit have customer
data we will build all of them it's more
convenient but then we well also like
you could consider the team members um
and thinking about sales has product
market fit in companies so does support
so does engineering um so can we build
those things now because it's now
possible uh I think it's going to be
correct that that works but we'll see.
>> All right. All right. You mentioned to
me before we started talking today that
you're h this is like unexpectedly maybe
you're having more fun than at any other
point in the company so far.
>> Um and that is a little counterintuitive
to people. Uh a lot of founders say oh
the early days are the most fun and they
kind of look back nostalgically. Why do
you think you're having more fun now
than ever before?
>> The the work feels much more leveraged
now which is quite entertaining. I think
before you're so much of our focus was
trying to get attention from people
because you have no attention by
default. It's the world is very noisy
and so I'm just like sending emails and
LinkedIn messages into the ether
basically and it just feels like I'm
doing an awful lot of stuff that has no
impact. Obviously when you do that like
a tiny little spark it then leads to a
big fire. Whereas now um it feels like
we're playing computer game. We've just
unlocked like rocket launchers or
something. So it's like, oh, we can like
go absolutely nuclear on this particular
idea and like really fully build it out
in a way that would be very hard to
we're like lucky enough to be able to
build this because it involves having to
have like 15 or 16 products and also a
bunch of AI stuff and we need to be able
to like have the time to build this
because like there's been remarkable
work at like intercom where they built
pin um and what we're trying to do is
analogist to that I think but it's not
making posto work with kind of what a
couple of products it's trying to make
it work across like 16 of them. Um, I
feel like we're going much deeper than
we've ever been. But it's enabled us to
make a bet like that. Like I think
similarly if we're starting from
scratch, trying to build what we're now
trying to build would be impossible. I
think like SpaceX or something um is a
much more grandiose idea. Like on day
one it's not building um like the
transportation from Mars. It's like day
one's like we need to build actually a
relatively unambitious satellite
launching business. I think we've been
we've sort of done quite a lot of the
homework. That means we're able to now
>> do these take the bigger test basically.
>> I wonder how many products Post Hog
would need to have to be as grandiose as
ambitious as SpaceX. Yeah, it's an
interesting comparison. You know, you
mentioned like having fun getting this
work out there. Like um I know building
in public is something that you're keen
on. What does that look like as a CEO is
getting this attention, getting that
spark and and putting it out there and
trying to start a fire. How do you think
about that and doing it in the open
where people can see what you're up to
and hear about it and follow along?
>> Trust was the original reason for it.
Like we just felt that even if you're
offering like most of our users don't
pay anything like you the open source
project and no one paid but it still
takes up there is a cost like it's trust
in terms of what are they doing my data
um and also just time with setting this
tool up. I think especially software is
getting more like as it's getting
quicker to build. There's more software
appearing. It's getting just more and
more competitive. I think it's got it's
become a step change more competitive
with AI. And so we felt that okay the
fundamental thing we have to achieve in
marketing is we need to highlight how
we're different because it's in a busy
industry. Uh and then we need to build
trust with users and like the foundation
of trust we felt was transparency. So um
instead of just having like a one pager
landing page we're going to like really
fully explain everything we can about
who we are what we're trying to do. I
think that gave us the trust we needed.
Um, and we thought about kind of I look
through other hack and use launches and
just sort of summarize like okay these
are all the pieces of critique I can see
and so we're going to make sure we have
transparent answers to these types the
questions would be things like they
don't have a clear business model I
don't think this is sustainable for
example there's like this sort of
inherent suspicion of ideas and we
thought okay let's just like think
through
>> these types of questions that we know
that our audience developers would have
and we'll just address them on the
website. So we like you know we didn't
have a pay product. We said hey this is
how we think the pay product is going to
work in future.
>> And that was from like day zero. You you
put some of those things in practice.
>> Yeah. Like before we launched Hacker
News. I think the other thing we
realized from a content and like a
marketing perspective was I think
experts writing about things is more
compelling often than non-experts. If
you look at like the front page of
hacker news there'll be like incredibly
technically savvy people talking about
very complicated topics quite often.
>> And I thought man I'm like don't I'm not
clever enough to get there but I need to
figure out a way to get us visible in
hacker news is like the probably the
most popular place for our audience. And
I thought well I am the thing I'm
actually an expert in is our business
and so I can write about what we're
learning and doing and so I feel like a
really natural topic. So we like we
wrote a blog post also doing the Y bad
batch like shortly after the launch of
what it's like moving San Francisco.
>> I remember that post. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um and again that was also viral
but I think I build a lot of trust
because it humanized us underneath. So I
was like put photos in of like we
climbed up like Twin Peaks for example
in the night at night. I think people
realize like oh there are human beings
you know in the same way that someone
might be really aggressive online but as
soon as you meet in person they're much
more chill. It's the same sort of
feeling and we're trying to make that
clear like with all our products today.
You can see like the literal engineers
that we have every single team member on
the team pages. You can see all the so
you can look at like product analytics.
You can see the handful of engineers
building it. You can click their bio and
read about like their pet cat for
example. So that you're like oh there
are people building this. The
humanization I think is really important
to stand out basically. Yeah. It it lets
people know someone's at home. You go
visit this house there'll be someone
there and you'll have a neat
interaction. I actually I I think about
your your moving to San Francisco post
quite often over the years since because
if you look at it, there's nothing that
remarkable in the post,
>> but you got it on Hacker News. People
read it, they talked about it, it was
discussed, and I think you're right.
It's because you just showed some of
your humanity behind uh this product
that people could use. And everyone's
looking for ways to relate to to folks
like themselves. I remember when I read
that I thought, "Wow, they can they can,
you know, climb up Twin Peaks and write
about it and get developers to want to
check it out. They've got, you know,
this is going to go somewhere." Um,
building in public is one of the ways
that you guys have really connected with
developers. I think another aspect of
that though is is humor and u bringing a
sense of like marrynt, amusement, and
maybe even a little chaos to how the
Post Hog message gets across. One of the
manifestations of that was present all
over San Francisco this last year with
the the crazy billboards uh that you
guys put up. In my opinion, like there's
billboards all over the city. When
people move to San Francisco, they're
shocked by all the tech ads everywhere
on all the billboards, but I don't think
I've seen anyone do quite what you guys
did with your marketing. And so, I
thought it'd be really fun to just take
a look at some of these together and and
get your take on what's going on here.
So I guess this first one is about
session replay ostensibly, but it's a
also like an ad for tomato sauce and
it's promoting the sweet taste of
understanding. Where did you guys come
up with this and what made you think to
compare to Tomato sauce to session
replay for example?
>> There are a few things I think kind of
by design we wanted it to it had to be
different. So kind of our grand theory
of billboards was how interesting your
brand is. If your brand's normally here,
everyone's a bit more interesting on
billboards. Like if you just look at
companies seem to come out of their
shell a bit more on billboards than they
do on their websites.
>> Why do you think that is?
>> I think they're trying to stand out
basically, but I think it's a bit like,
again, this is going to sound harsh, but
I think it's a bit like watching like a
first grader play football where they're
going to dabble. Um, but like they're
starting from a base of being a first
grader where it's like, well, we're
already pretty weird online, so our
billboards need to be bizarre. like they
need to be like totally out there. So,
we should like lean harder into this,
which we think will work because the
whole point is like it has to stand out
in the environment and we need people to
we want people to talk about and see it
and we're not trying to get conversion
like it's you're unlikely to decide to
install like our SDK whilst you're
driving your car down the freeway.
Instead of trying to please everyone,
we're not going to care about
conversion. We are just going to try and
raise awareness. And then the other
thing I think that had struck us was
from actually doing a bunch of social
stuff, we're like, "Oh, I can like spend
the time to write a useful post based on
something we're learning and that will
work reasonably well to get some like if
it's helpful, people will share it." But
somewhat depressingly if we write like
if I just write something I think is
funny, it can sometimes go a thousand
times further in terms of reach. So if
I'm just trying to raise awareness, it
has to be funny. Um it and that's
actually the primary thing we want to
get across and and so yeah we just
really wanted to like crank as far as we
could over on the like weirdness
slightly funny scale. Um it is a real
skill. I think we've been trying very
hard to I think a lot of corporates or
whatever do like corporate tryh hard and
it's very hard to not come because
you're obviously trying hard.
>> Your stuff is almost a parody of
corporate try hard. You've transcended
corporate tryh hard. It's a very um like
on hacker news for example people talk
about like on hacker news it's like
troll by fire basically where there's
unbelievable level of criticism our
marketing channel in slack is like that
too where people like your joke is just
not funny um it has to be better this
you look like you're trying so it's with
a very um heavy feedback culture in
marketing.
>> Let's let's talk about that. So before
um a post hog uh tweet or billboard gets
out into the wild
>> what is the incubation? Yeah, it's a
very small number of people will be
involved like probably like three or
four and it is a very high trust direct
place and so we're really trying to get
something that we think is genuinely it
might be sarcastic but something that's
genuinely funny to get onto a billboard
um or genu like just something that's
that would make our laugh or that we
would want we are kind of doing them for
ourselves like is it something I think
would be quite funny to see is sort of
the bar it feels like you're competing
against B2B software because like
there's all these like AI billboards
that are quite similar to each
Um, but I think the reality is if you
want people to pay attention, it's like
no, you're competing with like what
they're listening to on the radio or
what they're doing on their phone or
whatever else. Um, and so the bar is so
many times higher. Um, so it's like it
needs to be like in the at least in that
realm. Um, it's not just about being
like doing a slightly better
incrementally better job than other
software companies and which is like
impossing as Mr. Beast or something, but
like the mentality is like oh I wish we
need to be playing that game at least a
bit more. Um, we felt that, um, we would
make fun of adverts in general and so we
thought like, okay, we'll do like a very
like Americana style
>> That's right.
>> ad, but we'll make it like it's like a
1950s thing, but for like AI software,
whatever.
>> Tastes better than spaghetti.
>> Yeah.
>> And you're done up here like the host of
a um like a 1950s food show.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, talking about your B2B B2B SAS
product. Okay. And so why why 1950s
Americana? Like what where was the
appeal there? Yeah, I think if you sort
of say like what's the most
stereotypical kind of billboard ad you'd
imagine. I think you sort of would
imagine you would go back to like what's
the origin of billboards? That's almost
when you look at them from a positive
perspective. I think of like oh like
back in the day ads were kind of cool.
They're like funnier, better thought out
whereas now they've just got a bit death
to humans.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Or it's just like big words
on a billboard with like no design
element to it at all. And we thought
like actually let's try and make
something that's kind of a little bit
like warm feeling um and pretty stupid
like I was wearing like a frilly frock.
>> And what about the decision to put
yourself in all the ads? So, I was like,
I don't they don't even realize this is
me or they think they've got some like
random middle-aged guy to turn up these
ads. Um, either case is probably fine.
Um, yeah, we did a lot with hedgehog. We
did do some with hedgehogs as well, but
we felt again it's just not quite as
>> edgy. It's hard to make it not feel like
too professionally
>> done almost where it's like kind of
kooky to have like
>> a very average person on the ads or
whatever. Um, instead of like something
that we could clearly put tons of time
into.
>> Too hard on yourself, James. Uh, I mean,
I agree. Like, I think these are great.
My wife gives me so much grief. I get so
excited every time I see a post dog ad
around the city and my wife is like the
spaghetti guys again. But it lets people
know that someone's home. Yeah.
>> That there's actual people behind this
and that they really care a lot. You
know, even things down the details in
the typography like it sends a message.
We are going to make a product that's
also this well thought out and it's also
trying to get you what you need to the
same level.
>> Yeah. I think that's just like a level
of um signaling that like you know what
you're doing to pull off an ad like
this. Um because it I know it does show
a level of savviness like the website is
similar in thought process of like we're
trying to demonstrate someone who isn't
yet using our product that oh no they
kind of get technology or they like kind
of just get me as a person a little bit
better than like a faceless corporation.
Let's talk about your website. I think
you've got the best website of like any
B2B company maybe in the YC portfolio
and I get in trouble for saying that but
it's incredible. Your website's awesome.
What was the genesis of going in that
direction? cuz it wasn't always like
that. You mentioned a little bit ago
that early on you guys had a lot of back
content, a lot of lore on Post Hog early
on, but the website itself was still
pretty typical um static website with
some information for a SAS company. But
now it's this whole experience
simulating, you know, using a computer
in post hogland. Where did this come
from?
>> I think a few things. I think we kind of
since like 2021ish, the website's our
sales team. like there isn't a single
customer that won't go through the
website before they buy
>> the product and especially because of
nature our audience. We're very self-
served and so like well we should invest
in this like it's that we don't have to
hire a sales team it turns out in the
first few years or we we had but it was
tiny kind of like two people and so well
I think it we can therefore justify
spending like a ridiculous amount of
effort on the website. The cost isn't
that high but like we can put it's kind
of the energy really because I think
this will make us stand out. So I think
a lot of people quickly 8020 something
you can extremely quickly get to a
polish website now like in a day you
have a polish website. So everyone just
does that and they're like cool I'm done
now this is 8020 they move on and I'm
like well like marketing to me is like
because we're in a busy industry it's
about standing out and so there's no
point doing 8020 like there's it's just
a missed shot. It's like actually all
the respect on the website has come from
like the last percent of effort where
it's like no we're going to go like so
insanely far past what is normal that it
is remarkable which means that people
will talk about it. Um because when we
talked to users early on it turned out
all of them are coming to us for people
were showing up because they'd heard
about us online or someone recommended
us. Um and then we said why did they
recommend you and it was all the tools
in one low pricing um develop a brand
and very technical support people
>> and we have literally just done those
things and but it's like okay we can't
just keep doing them as it is we should
be trying to
>> crank the dial up further so it's like
instead of building like three products
we should build like 300 products um how
could that work um or on the brand side
it's like okay post is kind of weird
it's like it needs to be weirder still
like it needs to be so weird that it
polarizes every day we'll get a whole
bunch of people talk about that website
and we we monitor all our brand mentions
online and it's going to be like either
this is literally the best thing I have
ever seen and we also get this website
is atrocious but we feel like we're
polarizing it largely in favor of our
audience more like I'm sure there are
some people who are like what um but
we're happy to
>> push so hard in the direction we think
is something cool for our audience that
the people that aren't really our focus
are going to we don't care if they
disproportionately hate it basically and
then partly the other thing that
phenomenon that was happening was it
didn't just come from like a pure
aesthetic perspective we genuinely were
trying to out how do we build a website
that fully documents and prices for like
15 or 16 products. But we also have a
whole load of other things we built that
we think are useful. So for example, we
have a cool developer jobs board. It's
like a jobs board where the filters
instead of being just like location or
pay range or something are like what
kind of laptop do I get? Is the majority
of the company developers? The stuff
that an engineer actually would be
interested in think about. Yeah. Yeah.
And we reveal this as like kind of a fun
project, but we're like well this is
useful to our audience. We have that in
there. We have like a handbook that's
quite popular for people to read and
learn from. like we you can learn how
everything works like how much we pay
people like when we let people go like
everything is there and so that's like
another thing we have a newsletter with
like more than 100,000 subscribers
that's also in there and so it just felt
like the form of a website of just like
a thing lots of pages you scroll through
it felt like we're doing something more
multi much more multi-dimensional than
that that was yeah it's the two things
it wasn't purely aesthetic it was also
from experience but we actually thought
it would be better reflect what we're
doing post is quite a complicated
company like again it's tempting to be
like okay we should just have like a
single landing page we're like one
button you click and nothing no other
information. It's not what our audience
wants.
>> You're kind of like spitting in the eye
of the idea of a funnel. Um it's almost
like instead of a funnel that you're
trying to push people through, you're
just giving them a great piece of cheese
>> to dig into and enjoy and savor. Well,
we were wondering what would happen to
conversion rate and we were like we kind
of knew this is going to tank the
conversion rate is going to get we like
this get much more traffic and the
conversion rate is going worse. And I
was like, well, like if we ongoingly had
way more traffic and a worse conversion
rate, I if I could like double our
traffic and half our conversion rate, I
would take that. And so we launched it
kind of knowing that's probably what
would happen. But we did also think like
we think this is interesting enough that
people will actually switch on for once
online rather than just like sort of
like trying to rush to get to the
button. And like we also thought like I
mean if a developer can't work out how
to click get started when there's
already like three of them on the page
like you know that marginal person who
maybe would have would not converted
like I don't know. It just felt like
you're playing like a weird game trying
to appeal to that user. And so we think
like of the marginal user, this will
impress enough that they will convert
despite the fact the conversion
experience is very unusual.
>> And so yeah, the conversion rate did uh
it didn't actually tank. It was like
10%ish off the top of my head. We're
going to do a post on it. It was worse.
Um we did like one experiment to change
the flow slightly. Now the traffic's
much higher. The conversion rate is
significantly higher too. Um so it's
performing better um from a conversion
perspective even though it's like wildly
complicated. My favorite part of the
website, you have this uh unhinged merch
shop that has some some deep cuts in it.
And my favorite of the deep cuts is um
visitors can buy a signed photo of James
and Tim, the founders of Post Hog, and
it's sold out. Someone actually came and
bought
>> I think we sold one. So, in fairness, I
I love the yacht rock aesthetic of the
photo, by the way.
>> Yeah, we've had quite a few voting um
off sites. This is supposed to represent
Tim alignment, but I I was thinking
about it on the way here and I was
actually think I think the reason that
feels funny is you go like this is
represent Tim and I being aligned and
close together, but this is what aligned
would be
>> we're close but something else this.
Yeah.
>> All right. Well, um thank you so much
for spending time with us today and
talking us through all this. Uh I know
we have so many folks out there that
follow um you the videos that we put out
there looking for ways to break through.
Yeah. And I think your point about like
you have to be remarkable uh is obvious
but overlooked so much today. And so
thank you for sharing some of the ways
that you guys have figured out how to
try to stand out and be remarkable. And
congratulations again on this latest
round that you guys just raised. We're
so happy for you guys excited here at
YC.
>> Yeah, thank you. Yeah, it was u
monumentally important to us to go
through the program. Um so um yeah, turn
if you're listening like go apply to YC.
>> All right, thanks for joining us today.