Title: How The Best Companies Defend Against Mediocrity And Rot
Video ID: 7VKliOQXQ9M
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VKliOQXQ9M
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-05-22T14:00:07Z
Duration: PT50M5S
Views: 11730
Likes: 339
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1695

Description:
In this episode of the Main Function Garry sits down with Eric Ries, author of "The Lean Startup", about his new book, "Incorruptible: Why Good Companies Go Bad And How Great Companies Stay Great". 

Ries breaks down why shareholder primacy often leads to company and product degradation, how founders can lose control of the companies they build, and what legal structures and governance models can protect a company's core mission from outside threats. 

Pre-order the book here: https://shorturl.a

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

The best way to make money is to create
more value than you capture, right? To
build something that people want. And
yet, we're all supposed to pretend these
days that we think all kinds of making
money is equally good. And there's so
many ways of making money in our economy
today where you can get rich without
creating any value at all. And I just
think like why don't we just stop
pretending that we think that's good?
Today we have a very special guest, Eric
Reese, author of the Lean Startup, which
was a New York Times bestseller and a
crucial playbook for all founders. Eric
has a new book coming out called
Incorruptible: Why Good Companies Go Bad
and How Great Companies Stay Great. And
he's here to dive into some of those
core themes with us. Welcome, Eric.
>> Hey, man. Good to see you. Always fun to
hang out. I mean, the lean startup
taught our whole generation and the new
generations how to build. Uh, now you're
back with a new book called
Incorruptible. What made you decide to
start it?
>> You know, all my books come from pain.
You know, I never ask anybody to do
something in a book that I haven't done
myself. And man, we've been around this
a long time. Like, how many companies
have we seen built and created where the
thing that made them special gets lost?
How many founders lose control of their
company, get kicked out, it doesn't
become what they hoped it would be
because they don't understand how to
protect what they created.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I feel like lean startup, we created
so many companies worth protecting, but
we didn't give them the tools they
needed to actually stay in control to
actually protect the trustworthiness
of the thing that they made. So, I'm
sick of that.
>> Going from zero to one, a lot of people
spend a lot of time thinking about 0ero
to one and I think Lynn startup is one
of the bibles for being able to figure
that out.
>> Thank you for saying that. There isn't
really a playbook that is written until
now around how do you make it last for a
hundred years. Absolutely. And
unfortunately
the way we teach leadership and
entrepreneurship today we tell people
that like don't worry just be successful
just get to product market fit success
will protect you. So once you get
successful then you'll be powerful that
will give you freedom. And what we don't
tell you and what I wish no one told me
the more successful your organization
the more valuable it is as a target.
like that's what makes it worth taking
over. That's what makes it worth
stealing from you is the fact that it is
successful. So I think there's like a
missing ingredient here that I was a big
blind spot for me. I didn't see this
coming but I've you know I've lived it
now for quite a number of years. I've
seen so many companies you know have it
happen to them. In the book I tell this
story about like I was coaching a new
founder. I call him the professor in the
book to protect his privacy. But like
he's a genius story. Really incred an an
incredible person and building this
really transformative technology, you
know, on the cutting edge of AI plus
bioscience. So super cool, huge upside,
hella danger, right? Because you could
easily use this technology for something
really awful, boweapons, pandemics, you
know, that kind of stuff. So he he's
trying to recruit talent. He's having to
promise people that this is not going to
be used for those things. And that's
part of why he has this massive talent
advantage is people trust him. People
believe that this techn is going to be
used in the right way. But then people
are asking these tough questions like,
"But aren't we a for-profit company?"
Yeah.
>> What if an investors want to do
something evil? And he'd be like, "Well,
I'll tell them no." Why would you be
working there then if you're telling
your investors no, right? He he didn't
know how to answer those questions. But
when he would meet with investors, all
these VCs would just be like, "Oh,
that's nice, honey. Oh, you're worried
about that stuff. Like, don't don't
worry about it. You know, if you're
serious about business, this is not the
kind of thing you should be worried
about." So he like he was feeling
trapped. Anyway, I happened to be on my
way. I was talking to him to this event
commemorating a founder who' had huge
success, someone we both know well, had
made unbelievable amounts of money for
his investors. And at the earliest
opportunity, they had betrayed him and
kicked him out of his own company. And
we were doing this event to like
celebrate him and people had flown in
from all over the country, employees,
ex- employees, like there must have been
a thousand people there, including
people he had laid off who were like
coming back at their own expense to come
to this event to be there for. So I'm
explaining to the founder, listen to the
professor, I can't talk right now cuz I
got to go to this thing. I'm explaining
about the founder, the people coming in.
He's like, wow, respect. That's the kind
of company I want to build someday. And
I was like, you are not listening to me.
>> He doesn't work there anymore. This
isn't a party. It's a wake, right? And
he's like, what? Did he die? Like, no,
he's still alive. He's at the party. He
said, did the company die? No, the
company is still a publicly traded
company. He's like, what are you
mourning?
>> And this is the thing. I remember being
at that party and being like, what are
we mourning? What exactly is it? And I
realized like we all had this sense like
deep in our heart that like this is not
how it's supposed to be. Something's
gone wrong here.
>> We trusted this company. We trusted this
guy. He was the mission guardian, the
protector of this really important
mission to us. And now that he's gone,
>> I like the new CEO. He's a friend of
mine, too.
>> Yeah.
>> But like if he makes a promise investors
don't like, then he'll be replaced. So
what are his promises worth? So we're in
this era now where we have temporary
organizations being led by temporary
managers on behalf of temporary
investors. Average holding time of
stocks is like dramatically down.
Lifespan of companies is dramatically
down. Average tenure of executives is
dramat dramatically down. Then people
say, "Why is trust down? How come trust
no one trusts anybody anymore?" Well,
because we've built an economy that this
is how it runs. And I just think we have
the final say. Founders either have to
agree to or not this system. And so we
actually are the ones propping it up.
We're giving it the fresh meat it needs
to survive because it's so value
destroying.
>> Basically, there's um Delaware bylaws.
Is that right? Basically, you know, if
you're a Delaware CC Corp, you have to
relentlessly pursue profit. Otherwise,
there is grounds to remove you. That
specific principle is exactly how uh you
know the end of that founder's reign of
that particular company happened. I
still remember the professor being like
cuz I was like, "You're not listening to
me, right? You're not getting it." He's
like, "Wait, are you saying that's going
to be me someday?" I'm like, you're on a
one-way ticket to this exact outcome
because you've adopted the so-called
best practices of corporate governance
of how companies are supposed to be
built and run and structured. One of
them, of course, is what's called
shareholder primacy, right? This idea
that if you're a Delaware CC Corp, the
thing you make is not a beautiful living
thing that creates products and, you
know, delights customers and and is like
a good No, it's just a financial
instrument for investment returns.
That's what that's all it is. That's
actually a very new idea. And I think
one of the things that's a big
misconception for founders is they
assume that this is some kind of natural
law or like a pillar of capitalism going
back to Adam Smith or whatever. No, Adam
Smith would have been like, "What the f
you guys talking about?" This idea dates
to the 1980s. But the professor was
saying to me, he was just like, "Wait,
so is it possible to build an
incorruptible company?" That's kind of
how the book got its title. And I was
like, "Well, it's a good news, bad news
kind of thing. Everyone says this is
impossible that like this kind of
corruption of the mission is natural.
It's just as you get bigger, as you
scale, as you whatever. But that's not
true. There are actually choices we can
make at as founders and especially
choices we make early that can change
the trajectory of the company. So that
as you say, it's longevity could be
measured in decades and centuries, not
quarters. But the bad news was, dude,
you've already taken wrong steps in this
direction. You're already you had an
incorporated Delaware CC Corp. I'm like,
"If I pull your charter right now, it
says you have to maximize share your
value." He's like, "No, it doesn't. My
guy would never have done that to me. I
have a great lawyer." I was like, "Why
don't you call him and call me back
after this party? I'm going to go to
this thing. You call me back tomorrow
and you tell me what he says." And he I
remember talking to him the next day. He
was like, he felt so betrayed. He's
like, "My lawyer said he's doing me a
favor by giving me the best practice
documents and then I have to sell if if
the most evil company in the world wants
to buy this company, I have to sell it
to them." If my employees knew that,
they'd all quit. It's like, well, we
should probably fix that.
>> I mean, this is the way we've always
done it is sort of what what people are
going to tell you. I say in the book
that one of the things every concept,
every technique in this book has in
common is that someone will try to talk
you out of it.
>> And so, there's actually a whole section
on like how to talk to your lawyer about
it, how to talk to your investor about
it. That's just for based on my having
worked with so many companies. I I kept
a running log of all the BS objections,
all the weird like just asking
questions, like passive aggressive
comments that we got from anybody in the
ecosystem. And I was like, look, here
they are. Here's exactly how to answer
them and here's the evidence. This is
the part that really blew my mind. I've
been working on this for a long time. I
put the long-term stock exchange, you
know, you know, all stuff I've been
doing trying to like put my money where
my mouth is, you know, like look, we're
going to change this ecosystem so we all
make more money. We got to do it. The
thing I didn't really understand is how
much evidence we have that these
so-called best practices suck. They're
like literally value destroying.
>> I mean, let's go into one like the most
astonishing one. You know, our friend
Jeff Lawson at Twilio built that company
from nothing
>> to $4 billion in, you know, actual
revenue, like stock up 390% since IPO. I
mean, by all accounts, you know, smash
rip roaring success. And then his super
voting shares uh expired after 199 days
and he's out. And so less than half a
percent of shareholders did that. You
know, how did that happen? Like what
what's going on?
>> It's like it's honestly unbelievable to
me. Well, here, let me make the case for
why he needed to be fired. And then
you'll see if this makes sense to you.
So what happened was so he took the
company public. He agreed as part of the
IPO prep process, as a lot of founders
do, that he would have dual class
control, founder control. He'd be the
mission guardian. The protections would
sunset after seven years. Man, you're
taking a company public. Seven years
sounds like a long time. Yeah. But man,
in the public market, seven years is
just that's barely a beginning. It's
like a handful of quarters. Anyway, that
was the deal. He made the deal. His
adviserss and everybody told him, "Don't
worry about it. You can always extend
it." You know, you it's always too early
until it's too late. It's kind of the
the idea from the book like, "Okay,
whatever."
>> So, seven years come and go. Now, it
happens to be those seven years include
the pandemic years as you well remember
the runup in telecom and tech stocks we
had. It was like portfolio stock like
was just up an insane amount. That
bubble burst and the stock came way
down. So, at the time he was fired, the
stock was down like 80% from the peak.
And it's like, oh, well, case closed.
But if you measure from the IPO or even
from the pandemic peak, revenue was up.
It's like, did did the business go down?
Was revenue down? Was there some kind of
problem? No. And yet, that was enough
for them to fire him. And what really
pissed me off about it the most is this
199 days. So, that's so he run this
company for seven years as a public
company. Things expire. He didn't even
last one year past the expiration of
these protections. And even if you think
he made mistakes and even if you think
there's something like
>> had he really earned so little grace to
run this company like does does the fact
that he made all this money billions for
his investors didn't does that count for
nothing? Like what are we doing? And
what's strange to me in the book I give
it's not just about Twilio. Twilio is a
fine company that they're doing great
now. It's not just them. company after
company after company. I give case
studies going back 200 years where we
have this like urge when a founder makes
a quote unquote mistake, they have to be
fired. We have to have accountability
for founders. True, we do have
accountabs,
>> right?
>> Like when Edwin Lamb was fired from
Polaroid, now people are like, Polaroid,
wasn't that instant camera company? No,
man. Polaroid used to be an R&D
powerhouse. Had like 1500 research
scientists on staff. Steve Jobs like
loved that company, admired them so
much. when when Edwin Lamb was fired, he
called it the dumbest thing he'd ever
heard.
>> Yeah.
>> And like they never invented another
thing ever again after they fired the
founder. So I just think even if you
agree that the founders made a mistake,
we jump to the conclusion that firing
them, bringing in some suit like doing
the kind of standard best practice thing
is somehow going to lead to a positive
outcome. And so often it doesn't because
unfortunately we're teaching people that
the the mission can only be protected by
the founder. And then you get rid of the
founder, everyone's like, well, I guess
we have no mission anymore. We just
become extractive. We just try to make
money. What I really think is that we
shouldn't be just building
investor-controlled companies or founder
controlled companies. There's a third
way. Interesting.
>> We could be building mission controlled
companies where the mission itself has
sovereignty and these companies can then
last a lot longer.
>> What does that really look like? I mean,
Patagonia sort of famously was one of
the first to really do this, but you
know, for someone who's watching,
they're like, "Well, I know a Delaware
CC Corp." And then I know that there's
super voting shares and I shouldn't let
those expire. Like that might save
people from the Jeff Lawson.
>> I mean, that would be better than at
least be better than the sunset for
sure. But no, there's a lot more to
this. And maybe tell me tell you a
story.
>> I tell you the legend of Saul Price.
Okay, let's let's move away from tech
for a second because I think it's
helpful to understand the precedents
that got us into the situation we're in.
Saul is widely considered to be the
father of modern retail. If you want to
know why he's like people say that about
him to give a sense of how influential
he was. When a guy named Sam Walton was
thinking about starting a retailer in
Arkansas, he called it Walmart as an
intentional tribute to the company Saul
created which was called Fedbart.
Fedmart's the original modern retail
company started in my hometown in San
Diego in the 1950s. Saul was a lawyer
before he became an entrepreneur. And
when he was a lawyer, he had this idea.
He had been trained that you have a
fiduciary duty to your client. That
means you put your client's interest
before yours. So when he became a
retailer, he asked himself this simple
question. Who's my client? And so many
companies get this wrong. He was just
like, this is very simple. I am a
fiduciary to my customer. Customer is
the client. So he had this clear
fiduciary hierarchy. Customers first,
employees second, shareholders third.
The great Peter Ducker said he got it
wrong. It should have been employees
first, customers second, shareholders
last. The famous Johnson and Johnson
Alcredo is doctors, patients, and nurses
first, employees second, communities
third, shareholders last. You notice the
pattern. Not because shareholders aren't
important, but because everyone who's
ever studied this and looked at it
seriously understands that shareholder
value is like the exhaust that comes out
of the engine. When you take the exhaust
pipe and put it in the intake and make
that your explicit goal, now you don't
stand for anything anymore. Now, now
product quality suffers. how whatever
you know whatever thing you think is
important the thing that's going to make
you money design quality health health
of your customers whatever everything
becomes expendable on the altar of
shareholder value and and no company can
really endure with that structure
>> or they do and it looks like Philip
Morris
>> or you wind up being the kind of company
that your grandkids are embarrassed to
be related to you because that's what
you did and we know a lot of current
tech companies are on that trajectory
right now and it's sad like I don't want
to name names but like think about
companies where having that on your
resume used to be like the gold star and
now people are like why did you stay
there?
>> Yeah. I think there was a stat in your
book that really jumped out at me. It's
like $8 billion in profit but was it 300
billion? Yeah.
>> In or 600 billion.
>> 600 billion. Yeah. $300 billion in
direct healthcare costs. Yeah. So when
people say that Philip Morris is
profitable in order to call it
profitable you have to take this
incredibly narrow view of profit. They
have something like $8 billion a year in
net income. But there's been all these
studies. They create $600 billion a year
in costs just in the US that have to be
borne by others. I think it's 300
billion in direct healthcare costs and
$300 billion in loss productivity and
obviously the mortality of people dying
and therefore not being able to work.
It's like it's grim. And there's a
zillions different studies. I think
someone calculated recently that the
tobacco industry makes $6,000 from every
customer that dies. Do you want that to
be your future? Like like if you don't
get the governance of your startup
right, no other decision you make in the
long term is going to matter because
you're not going to be there to be the
one making it. So someone's like, I have
an idea. Let's turn this company to
Philip Morris. What are you going to do?
Back to Salt Price. FedMart embodied
this principle of fiduciary to the
customer. You think about the way that
Steve Jobs would obsess about design.
Steve Jobs used to get into fights with
people about the the visual design
layout of the cables inside computers
where he didn't even want customers to
be allowed to open the case. And his
engineers would be like, "Why do you
care? No one's going to see it." But he
was like, "We're going to see it."
Right? Like I this is my principle. This
is not shareholder value. If we stand
for this principle, good stuff's going
to happen to us. Now,
>> how you do anything is how you do
everything.
>> Now, Steve Jobs got fired because of
this exact thing. So, spoiler alert, so
will Saul in a second. So he built this
company. Fiduciary to the customer meant
if you try to undercut him on price, he
would literally put up signs inside his
own store being like, "Don't buy this
product from me. You can get it cheaper
at a competitor." And he'd have like
instructions on where to go get it.
Right? Like he just he was like, "I
don't care. My job is to get you the
lowest price. I don't care if it's from
me."
>> People will come to you every single
time because
>> they're like, "Hey, no, if it's ever so
cheap or something." Can you imagine a
modern retailer doing that? Like these
DTC brands where I'm just like, "I got
to
>> buy it on your price. I got to go check
over here." like, "No, why don't you why
don't you be my ally and then I'll trust
you?" So, he understood trust is an
asset. So, customers would drive like
miles out of their way to shop at
Fedmart. It was a huge success, huge
private company success. He took the
company public. Everyone made a lot of
money from this IPO. And as a public
company, you know what happened?
Investors kept being on him. He felt
this like gravitational pull. He wanted
low prices and high wages. Investors
seem to want high prices and low wages.
So, he just was always battling
investors, battling investors. Now Saul
was a really stubborn sob. In order to
try to get out of this situation, he
brought in a new controlling shareholder
to buy out public market investors to
give him this protection. He got a new
board and the whole thing is going to
take the company private. That was the
whole plan. And he thought the new
board, because they really understood
retail, they understood him. They like
looked him in the eye and said, "I see
you, man. You're the they'll surely back
him up." But no, the new board didn't
solve anything because they were still
into this gravitational hypnotic power
of these best practices. So they wanted
higher prices and lower wages and faster
growth and they didn't care about the
collateral damage to employees,
customers or anything else. They just
wanted to see the number go up. So one
day in 1975, Saul comes into work and
these guys have changed the locks on his
door. He can't even get into his office.
He doesn't work there anymore.
>> Wow.
>> So it's just like just like Jeff Lawson,
just like as so many people lose
control. So what happened? This is like
a
>> a natural AB test experiment in business
history. You don't get this that often.
In branch A, Fedmart's investors got
what they wanted. They got Saul out of
the way. They converted FedMart to tra
traditional business practices. It was
bankrupt within seven years.
>> Oh wow.
>> They destroyed in seven years what he
took 20 years to build. Saul was a
classic entrepreneur like so many people
we know. He took exactly two weeks off
after this happened to him to lick his
wounds.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he was back at work. He leased
the office upstairs from FedMart. Nice
>> for his new company and was just like,
"F you. I'm doing it again." He created
a new company called Price Club. And
when I was a kid, Price Club was like a
major retailer. My family shopped there
all the time. But most people today
don't know Price Club because of what
happened next. One of the FedMart
employees, a guy who had worked his way
up from stock boy to executive. He quit
FedMart in protest when Saul was fired.
And he created his own company because
he understood, as Saul understood, the
engine. Later, the two companies merged
to form a company they called Price
Costco, but we just call it Costco.
>> Makes sense. This is the deep cut
backstory of how Costco came to be.
Costco today still embodies that salt
price fiduciary to the customer idea.
But it is protected by this thing I call
a governance fortress that protects it
from outside attacks. So that its board
understands its job very differently
than most companies boards. Instead of
saying my job is just to maximize
returns for shareholders, the board
understands that our job is to protect
the mission. And so when we talk about
being mission controlled, this is what
we're aiming for. Now, the book is
loaded with techniques. Like, I promise
it's not just a manifesto. There's a lot
of detail to it. You're not going to
learn it from some guy on a podcast.
Obviously, like we'll we'll get into
some of it, but like overall, if you
zoom way out, the the pattern is this.
We we an ethos like Saul Price had some
kind of higher principle that we're
committed to that we understand we're
going to make money by maximizing human
flourishing by doing this thing. And
then we need the structural integrity,
the ability to protect that precious
thing that we've created from any kind
of temptation or outside outside
pressure. So that's kind of the the
short formula if you don't take much
away from this. Ethos plus integrity
equals incorruptible. How do you find
the right board members for something
like that? I mean, there's sort of like
the docs, which you know, founders when
you're starting out, you do have control
over that. All the the best docs in the
world without the right people, like you
still can't keep it going. Yeah. The
first step and the hardest step by far
is to be willing to say that you are not
in line with these best practices. They
are what's called a normative consensus.
Everyone agrees that everyone agrees
>> that this is the right.
>> You got to agree that you're going to be
punk rock.
>> Yeah. So you got So if you're willing
Yeah. You got to be like this is not for
me because like I tell this story in the
book about Costco versus Kroger, the
grocery store. Costco came under attack
in the early 2000s for having these
non-standard governance practices. In
fact, Costco routinely gets the worst
possible governance rating from
governance rating people. And Kroger
decided to go all in on best practices.
So, we have this like natural experiment
where like Costco has been like
incredibly successful since this moment
being having bad governance and Kroger
has not had the same level of success.
In fact, one analyst called Kroger's
performance like Costco in reverse. So,
I always tell people the next time
someone says to you, I want you to adopt
some best practice, you just in your
mind, you don't have to say anything out
loud. Just say just best practice equals
Kroger practice. This is someone who
wants to be more like Kroger and less
like Costco. Why would you want that?
Again, no no shade on Kroger, but you
could be one of the greatest performing
stocks of all time or you could be this
thing. We have to master these
techniques. And the most important thing
is to create selection bias. So, you
want investors and board members who are
choosing to be with you because they
believe in this mission, not just
because they think they're going to make
a quick buck from it. Even if they're
investors who are they are going to
profit from you, you want to make sure
their interests are truly aligned with
you. I just was talking to a founder
today that ran into this common problem
where you put some awesome person on
your board who you just think this
person walks on water and you forget
that you take a venture investment from
a venture firm. You're not taking
investment from that individual person.
You're taking investment from a company.
Then that person leaves and now you're
stuck with some new person like and
you've given all these veto rights, all
these control rights to someone. You
don't even know who they are. You don't
know if they're aligned with you. You
you've never read the LPA of these
funds. Like you don't really know what
their incentives are. So, I think
founders are generally much too naive
and much too credulous about who's going
to be a good long-term partner. And
they're so easily bamboozled by people
like, "I'm founder friendly. We don't
need to worry about this stuff. We're
aligned. It's going to be good, but I
also do need to be the ability to fire
you at will, you know, whenever I want."
It's like, thought you said you were you
were a believer in my vision. It's like,
well, as long as as long as I like
what's going on. That's not actually
what belief means.
>> YC Startup School is back. We're hand
selecting the most promising builders in
the world and flying them out to San
Francisco for July 25th and 26th to
discuss the cutting edge of tech and
startups. Apply now for your spot. What
about on the dock side? Let's say you
get into YC, you've got a safe, you
know, maybe you haven't converted equity
yet. Yeah, the normal path which is like
pure founder shares is like, "All right,
let me see if I can get super voting or
let's write it in from day one." I guess
the Delaware CC Corp thing is actually a
pretty big thing. A lot of AI companies
have chosen to be PBC's or public
benefit corporations on day one. Yeah.
>> What's sort of best practice for people?
>> I think I think PBC is an absolute mustd
do
>> and kind of a like an utter no-brainer.
Of all the things in the book, it's by
far the easiest thing. If you want to
pick one thing to do, it's the easiest
thing to do. It's a two-page legal
filing in Delaware. Your daughters can
have it done for you tomorrow. And
especially if you only have safes, if
you don't have any like equity
investors,
>> you just turn into a PBC tomorrow.
>> You just just, you know, you don't even
need anyone to agree. You just you just
do it.
>> What's interesting to me about the PPC,
and most people get confused because
they think it's like the same as a
little B in a circle you see at the
farmers market, which is something
totally different. That's covered in the
book, too, but that's not what we're
talking about now. All it does is
restore what's called purposeful
incorporation, which for the vast
majority of the centuries that we have
had joint stock corporations on this
planet, everybody understood and thought
it was totally obvious that companies
should be incorporated to do a specific
thing.
>> So literally a mission or it have should
have a public benefit. If you look at
the 19th century like companies that
were created and you read their charter,
none of them say maximize shareholder
value. That would have been considered a
crime.
>> Interesting.
Yeah, it would say like we've created
this thing to create a railroad to build
a canal from place to place to like to
do something specific. And the board's
responsibility, the fiduciary duty,
their first highest priority was to
defend and protect that purpose. When we
shifted to shareholder primacy, we like
forgot this really important lesson.
>> So, who did this? Who did this to us?
>> Who did this to us? It's actually super
wild. Okay, you we'll do a history
lesson. You okay?
>> I'd love to. This is incredible to me.
So, like there's this story in the book
about this 19th century situation that
like if you know Elon's takeover of
Twitter or whatever, you're like, I know
how this is going to go. One of the
richest men in the world tries to buy
take over this this company that was the
Eerie Canal Company that built and
operated this canal. And he has
unlimited money. So, he's just like, no
matter what it takes, I'm going to buy
this company and convert it to what I
want it to do. And the board directors,
unlike modern boards who are told, when
that happens, you have to become an
auctioneer and sell. No, they were just
like, "We will fight you by whatever
means necessary." And both sides went
crazy. It was like a crazy fight. And
like there were no corporate governance
or even ethical standards like we have
now. Like they literally the stories
were like they were both bribing the
same state legislator legislators and
people would like take bribes from both
sides and then vote with one of them,
you know, like it was an epic fight. But
what's interesting, if you read the
commentary about it, people were
scandalized because they did a bunch of
bad illegal stuff. But nobody was like,
"It's wrong that the board tried to
fight this." They were all like, "Of
course they tried to fight it naturally.
It makes perfect sense." And like I
said, if he lost in the end, they fought
him off using what's called a poison
pill tactic, which now today we is you
can just ask your lawyer to put this in
your jocks and you can just have it if
you want. If you don't have it, why not?
That's another tactic.
>> So many of these things you could just
you just have it. You don't have to like
wait for someone to give you permission.
You just do it. So anyway, if he had
prevailed and he had actually managed to
convert the legal purpose of this
company from make a canal to maximize
shareholder value, that would have been
considered a crime and the courts would
have avoided the company's charter. It
would have given them the corporate
death penalty because that would have
been considered beyond the scope of what
was authorized to be in the public
benefit. So this was the rule all up in
the US all up through the the end of the
19th century. The problem was in order
to get one of these charters, you had to
get your state legislature to give you
one. You imagine if like you had to go
lobby your local state senate for
permission to form a company. It was
like very cumbersome. That part of the
system was bad. So there was a big fight
over the whole 19th century to create
what was called general incorporation,
which was a simple idea that anybody who
wanted to should be able to form a
company for any reason, which we were
very grateful that it had to be fought.
It was literally a battle state house by
state house. Everywhere over the course
of the 19th century, every state
eventually came into compliance. The key
date for our purposes is Delaware
adopted this in 1899. So like not 1299.
This is relatively recent history, 1899.
But even in 1899, if you read the
Delaware rule,
>> it said that you could have a company
for any purpose, but it still assumed
you would have a purpose, a mission that
was considered completely obvious. And
yet over the course of the 20th century,
companies more and more and more were
being advised by lawyers to instead of
writing in your specific purpose, just
put a general purpose in there. So most
founders have never read their corporate
charter. I have no idea what it says.
Shame on you. Go read it.
>> You're going to read it and you're going
to say, "Eric, what are you talking
about? It says here the Acme AI company
is incorporated to pursue." And there's
like a blank space like a Mad Lib and
someone has scrolled in any legal act or
activity that means anything. So it's
all good. Wrong. So wrong. We're going
to get to why. In the 60s and 70s, a
bunch of academics and judges and like
legal scholars, like a very small group,
decided that any lawful actor activity
actually means shareholder primacy.
Unlike general incorporation that they
were replacing, they never put this to
any kind of vote in the history of the
world. Shareholder primacy has never
been subject to any referendum, any
legislative action, nothing. So, it's
weird. But if you learned in school how
a bill becomes a law, there's no law.
>> Yeah.
>> For shareholder privacy. Yet if you ask
any director on any board in America,
what is your first duty? They'll say to
maximize returns for shareholders.
>> So how can it be the law and not a law?
Well, the courts just decided there were
guys like Milton Friedman and they are
they would write these op-eds where they
write very famously things like the
social purpose of a corporation is to
increase its profits. Notice they never
said they weren't like the BC Corp
people where they're like well we have
ex regular corporations and we're gonna
have EC corps extractive companies and
there's this is the no they said this
the purpose of a company is the trick
was they convinced everybody that this
is how it's always been and we've all
learned that we were talking well this
is just how it is.
>> Well turns out
>> we don't even need to get the law
changed we just have to start saying no
we don't actually think this makes sense
and we don't want to be part of it. If
you read the legal papers I'll give you
one last like funny bit. This blew my
mind reading these papers. There's all
these legal scholars who have had to
write papers about why is this the law
if it's not the law and they write this
stuff that's like hilarious. They'll be
like sherh primacy is a legal obligation
not a legal duty. They're like oh
>> subtle
>> that really clears it up for me. Like
what are you talking about? What? And so
they're like look look
>> at the end of the day even though this
is not technically a law it is the law
and it's okay for the court to enforce
it like a law. Remember, you'll be fired
if you violate this law. It's very It is
the law.
>> It's okay.
>> Sued about it.
>> It will you lose that lawsuit. The the
board of Twitter was forced to sue Elon
to complete that transaction even though
they weren't that happy about it because
they felt like we have this fiduciary
duty. We have to do it. It's so
different for the shareholders. And if
they hadn't done it, they would have
been sued and this lawsuit would
definitely have worked. So like they
weren't wrong about their requirement.
But why would we build companies like
this? who wants to be like taken over at
the barrel of a gun. So they they
basically conclude if you read these
papers they say look at this point
shareholder primacy is what's called a
normative consensus meaning everyone
agrees that everyone agrees that this is
how companies should act. So I work with
a lot of founders. I love to ask them
hey are you part of this normative
consensus? Does this seem right to you?
Every founder I've ever met it's like oh
I'm not certainly not. I'm like great.
Have you ever told even one other human
being that you're not part of this
normative consensus? Until just now when
you told me, everybody I talked to is
like, "Oh, no. You can't say stuff like
that out loud. You can you can say it
out loud. If it's a controversy, it
can't be a consensus now, can it?" So,
luckily, we have the PBC tools. We have
a bunch of tools in our arsenal where we
can declare this formally legally for
our company.
>> So, we don't have to have, you know,
social movement per se, but we could be
fun,
>> but we could. And also like in the book
I call this the builder's intuition that
the best way to make money is to create
more value than you capture, right? To
build something that people want.
>> You know, Tim O'Reilly, PG, all the
legends of our industry all agree on
this. They talk about this all the time.
And yet, we're all supposed to pretend
these days that we think all kinds of
making money is equally good. And
there's so many ways of making money in
our economy today that where you can get
rich without creating any value at all.
>> Yeah. And I just think like why don't we
just stop pretending that we think
that's good. No one none of us think
it's good. We think it's all BS. So we
should start I think as builders reclaim
that sense of identity to say you know
what yeah we're not part of this
normative consensus. We don't want to do
this anymore. We would like to have a
different solution. Now I think if we
just say well because investor control
is not working we should have founder
control. Founder control is not that
great either because I know a lot of
people who are like basically trapped.
they can never quit their company
because they're like the one they're
like literally the human shield blocking
every that's too much and of course
people die then what so if you want to
build a truly long-term solution we got
to look for structural solutions that do
not depend on the goodwill of any
individual one person but we start to
think about almost like building a
government like checks and balances
about how do we balance faction against
faction and luckily like there are good
precedents for this
>> interesting so uh if you become a PBC
and you have a specific mission does
that you know you you're no longer
longer subject to being removed um if
you work against or make choices that
are not maximizing shareholder value.
Correct. Does that also mean that you
can be removed if you're not working
towards the mission?
>> Well, unfortunately not. Interesting. It
does not it doesn't work both ways. The
problem is directors, especially under
Delaware law, have extremely wide
latitude to basically do whatever they
want as long as they can justify it as
being, you know, in line with what it
says in the charter. It's helpful in
this case if your directors are under
pressure from investors to fire you
because you're not being char they're
maximizing the PBC can be a shield that
they can use to protect themselves from
these
>> we're working
unfortunately if they decide to fire you
anyway it still doesn't help you you
can't sue them to be like what the f
>> they still get to make their own
judgments so a huge part of the problem
is we are being taught today that the
best practice is to have a combination
of investor directors and independent
directors and say good governance is the
more independent directors.
>> Why is that?
>> Well, the theory, it's a reasonable
theory that because independent
directors are independent, what does it
mean to be independent for those that
don't know? It means they literally have
no stake in the outcome.
>> They don't have like they're not aligned
to you at all. They don't have equity in
the company. The idea is they
>> random people.
>> They're basically like you want random
eminent people.
>> Eminent people. The problem is they have
no financial incentive for the mission
to endure. But they do have a financial
incentive to be seen as pro-investor
because how do you get independent
director jobs? You get recommended by
investors. Okay, founders, you got to do
a better job at this. Most founders
never recommend anybody for a director
job. Investors do a great job of it. So
if you have a board like classic Silicon
Valley board would be two VCs, two
founders, and an independent that's
supposed to be fair because it's two and
two balanced. That is basically just
investors control your company. All
right, don't kid yourself. The research,
by the way, this is one of many. There's
a whole chart in chapter nine of this
book that just is called best practices
destroy shareholder value. This is one
of these best practices that like we
have the evidence like independent
directors do not accomplish the goal
that they're supposed to have because
they have this actual conflict of
interest despite their nominal
independence. So the solution is just
like investor directors are are doubly
accountable. Like if you're you put a GP
of a venture fund on your board, they
have a double duty. They have a duty to
the company, but also a duty to their
LPs. That doesn't bother anybody. We we
understand investors are smart enough to
be able to handle that. Not a big deal.
But independent directors don't have
that because they're not really
accountable to anybody. They're just
accountable to themselves. Well, there
is a solution. We can actually create a
second entity like a two branch
government where we have outside
trustees who have the responsibility of
appointing directors. sometimes just the
independent directors, sometimes all the
directors. So that structure has been
proven to be more stable than the
so-called best practice of a single
entity just run as a Delaware CC Corp.
Can I tell you a story?
>> Yeah.
>> This is one of my favorite stories
because here I'm going to tell you I'm
going to tell you the premise of the
story. You're not going to believe me
and then I'll try to prove it to you
that's true. Premise of the story is
this story about a time when the
nonprofit directors of a company created
more than $500 billion of shareholder
value. In the 1920s, there's a woman
named Marie Crowe. She was living in
Denmark and she gets a fatal diagnosis
of an illness that has no known cure at
that time called diabetes. Today, Maria
is mostly famous because of her husband,
August. He just won the Nobel Prize. So,
he's a pretty smart guy. He asks her if
she would, despite her fatal illness,
would she accompany him on a lecture
tour of North America? She says, "Sure."
So, they go to North America. They're
meeting scientists, you know, and doing
these lectures and whatever. What at
dinner one night, one of the scientists
tells them that in Canada, someone has
figured out how to isolate insulin for
the first time. Huh. Potential cure. So
they're excited and so it was obvious to
them that they should go see, you know,
it could have easily just been like, can
you send us some doses? We don't care
about No, they wanted to go see it for
themselves. They meet the Canadians,
they see this possibility and they say,
look, we would like to commercialize
this technology in Denmark. Can we
license it for you? And they and the
Canadians have this worry decades ahead
of Martin Skrey, okay? They were like,
"Wait a minute. If we're have a
for-profit company that is selling a
life-saving medicine, like let's say you
sell a medicine to me that I need to
live. I want you to charge me a fair
price, right? I want you to stay in
business. I want you to have every
incentive to keep producing the
medicine. That's great. But I would live
in fear that one day you would wake up
like Martin Screy did and be like, "Wait
a second. If Eric owes his life to this
medicine, can I charge him anything I
want? He's basically my slave." So they
were wor they they foresaw this in the
1920s.
>> So when they went home to Denmark, they
made an agreement with the Canadians.
What they would do is they would build
this thing. They called it the Nordisk
Insulin Laboratorium as a for-profit
subsidiary of a nonprofit foundation. So
they built two entities instead of one.
And the nonprofit had trustees and the
for-profit had directors. That structure
really wor it's a great MVP story by the
way. They had the first insulin. They
produced it within like three months of
getting back to Denmark. They got to
work. They really like this was an
urgent problem for them because that
they wanted Marie to live but also they
wanted to save a lot of lives.
>> Anyway, if the Nordisk Insulin
Laboratorium sounds familiar, it should.
This is the predecessor company to what
we now call Nova Nordisk. This company's
been going for more than a hundred years
with its scientific integrity intact.
And people hear that story and they're
like, well, maybe they were just lucky.
Maybe the D the Danes are more friendly
or whatever. Like people have all these
dumb story theories about why. No. Every
crazy thing, the same force that came
for Jeff Lawson, the same force that
came for Saul Price, the same force that
has like destroyed so many tech
companies. Of course it came for
Novodoris. They're a huge company. Of
course it did. So, in the early 2000s,
it was a big wave of new best practices
for pharmaceutical companies that they
all needed to combine into M&A to get
bigger. So, the for-profit board and all
of its independent directors and
everybody of Novadoresk are like, "Oh, I
guess we have to merge." So, they go
around trying to find a merger to sell
the company. They find this company.
They they have a signed merger
agreement. They're going to get a huge
premium on the stock price. Now, at this
point, Novo is a publicly traded
company. They get this agreement. the
last like due diligence checklist item
they have to do is go to the foundation
and get their permission to do the
merger. The trustees are like well what
is the purpose of this transaction and
they're like our job is to look after
the mission of Novaorisk.
We're only allowed to approve a merger
if it's necessary for the survival of
the company. And my f the favorite
detail about the story is they had to
have two meetings because they were like
we're going to get back to you. We're
going to get the bankers. They they
rehddle with the bankers. They bring the
bankers back and they're like, "Ah,
since you said it's necessary for the
survival of the company, this is the new
best practice. In pharma, it's eat or be
eaten. If we don't merge, we're going to
die, whatever." And the nonprofit
trustees are like, "Okay, that's
interesting. But what problem are we
solving exactly?" Because Novanortis has
been profitable for 10 years in a row,
growing like 20% a year.
>> It doesn't have to do anything.
>> Why do we have to do Why can't we just
be a great business doing our thing?
Anyway, long story short, the trustees
say no. Merger over.
>> Yeah. People are so pissed at them
because like this is going to be like a
$20 billion merger. It was going to make
a lot of money for a lot of people.
Bankers are p everyone's pissed. Now,
it's rare in business that you have
these moments like with FedMart where
you actually get to see the
counterfactual. So, we know for sure
that if they had not done this, all of
the major R&D programs of Novanores
would have been cancelled. Oh my god. We
know because the company they were going
to merge with two years later was bought
by Merc and that's what happened.
>> Oh my god. One of those research
programs was in year I think 11 of 13
of inventing GLP-1. So because the of
trustees interfered here, the research
program was allowed to come to fruition.
You have to understand this was GLP1 was
such a difficult drug to to produce that
even 10 years in, they had no evidence
whatsoever that it was going to work.
And like everyone's like, why are we
funding this thing? Seems like it's
never going to work. But they kept the
faith. If you fast forward 20 years,
this intervention caused Novonorisk to
have for a time a value cap, a market
valuation greater than the GDP of
Denmark. And if you freeze frame right
that moment, you will have now noticed
the delta between what they would have
sold for and what they actually are
worth
>> more versus longterm, which is a theme
over and over again.
>> Over and over again, they became they
they I think they their valuation
crested at $600 billion. I think though
that builders have to take some
responsibility here. Okay, I mentioned
before that most founders have never
read their corporate governing documents
>> worth doing.
>> Everyone's just like, "Well, my lord
will take care of it." It's like
governance, I hate even using the word
governance because as soon as I hear
that, people are like, "Boring, who
cares?" I mean, I remember with le
startup is a book about management and I
remember telling people like it's going
to talk about management, they be like,
"Magement so boring." Like, yeah. So,
because we delegate this to lawyers and
bankers and whoever else,
>> we like when it comes back to bite us in
the butt, we're like totally unprepared.
I think builders have to get a lot more
savvy about this. First of all, make
sure they understand what they're
signing, but then also to yeah to put on
the t-shirt with the fist to be like, I
don't want this to happen to me. Like
this is not the kind of company I want
to build. And I think we are not that
far from being able to have an economy
that is about building again. Like I
really think we are close to that. The
younger generations are super pissed
off. This idea of shareholder primacy
has had its 40 50 year run now. People
who've grown up only under that system
have seen its failure. Like we live in a
time of institutional collapse and
institutional weakness. And this is the
thing like when companies collapse, when
they go through these ethical moral
collapses, it's also an economic
collapse. Like that's what's so
interesting to me is it's value
destroying. So we don't need to make a
moral argument necessarily. We can just
make an economic argument. And the book
is loaded with the evidence. For
example, the Novo Nordisk style of
company where you have this two-tiered
foundation that's called an industrial
foundation structure in academic
literature. Companies with that
structure, there's a lot of them. The
the German optics company Zeiss had the
structure in 1885.
>> Oh wow.
>> So it's not even that new. There's
enough of these companies that we have a
data set to see how they perform.
Companies with this structure are six
times more likely to live to year 50.
>> Amazing.
>> 10% versus 60% probability. So we as
founders when we're choosing our
corporate form, we're being told that
there's this business monoculture. All
you can do is a Delaware CC Corp.
Everything's standard, best practice,
best practice. Man, we've been deprived
of our birthright. There's way more
options out there than we're being told.
And I just I always tell founders, why
are you having to hear about it from me?
>> Yeah. Why didn't your investors tell
you? Why didn't your lawyers tell you?
Like, how come you if you don't know
this story? Why not? Why wasn't in your
MBA class? Why isn't this not in the
curriculum?
>> Well, we need VC funds to not be 10-year
funds. Well, that's a huge problem to
>> just for the people the audience. I
mean, basically the the standard LP
agreement for a venture capital fund is
10 years, which also means that at the
end of those 10 years, the money that
was put out is expected to come back. So
10 years is it's just not that long
anymore, especially I mean it made
sense. Most of these practices come from
a time when companies would go public
like three years after being founded.
Amazon went public, I think, that way,
raised like $20 million. like it just
the the scale of an IPO was much less of
a big deal back then.
>> It used to be the three-year overnight
success. Now it's the 20-year overnight
success.
>> Absolutely. And of course, we have
companies like Stripe that are like
stubbornly just refusing to go public
because why should they? And I think
people ring their hands about this, but
it's like what do you expect, man? If
you create a system that puts this
gravitational pressure on companies, you
have to expect people to fight back and
resist. I don't think the tools we've
used in our resistance are very good. I
think we've like been desperately
grabbing for whatever we can grab
because we feel like
>> more founder control which is I mean
honestly what we advocate for.
>> It's better than nothing. I mean it's
certainly better than investor control
which really is self-defeating. Founder
control has all these problems. And
what's interesting to me is
people who do founder control have no
bridge. They're stuck. So, like for
example, one of the things I advocate
for is that um if you're going to do
founder control, just write into the
docs that if the founder control is ever
defeated for any reason, there's an
alternative thing that springs up in its
place. You can you can just write this
in your docs right now. You can have
this at the seed stage. It's not that
hard. Just say yes, I'm going to have
the Nova Norris Industrial Foundation
structure or I'm going to have one.
There's a bunch of structures that I I
explain in the book. What's cool about
that is founders think that um having
dual class shares makes you invincible,
but it really doesn't. Dual class is
defeated all the time. Uh I give a bunch
of examples in the book like you know
the stock price drops everyone panics
found forced out anyway because at the
end of the day like having the votes is
not the only thing that matters there's
a bunch of things that matter including
like investors being like well we won't
give you any more money unless you turn
this protection off. So I think the
perception of being invincible and like
being emperor for life not only is it
not true you those people still get
betrayed but you also it has a
psychological effect that's not healthy.
>> Um it's called hubris syndrome in the in
the in the psychological literature. It
makes you less generous, less
compassionate. It makes you more
selfish. It makes you more afraid,
conversely, of losing your power. So, if
you notice some of these like emperor
forlife billionaire types out on social
media like having a mental breakdown in
front of us all, like part of what's
going on is that like this is a mental
illness. This is not actually a good
structure. because we have these better
structures, there's really no reason to
do it or at least do it as a backup for
after your dual class shares get uh get
defeated which you know generally
speaking they eventually do get defeated
including by the death of the founder.
So what then like I think if you want to
build a 50 or 100year company you got to
last longer.
>> One of the more profound reasons to
start a company is actually wanting to
create something that outlives you.
>> I think so. I think that's actually part
of why entrepreneurship is so awesome
like as a career.
>> The first time I ever heard of a PBC
actually was from my friend Scott
Phoenix. uh he started a AI lab called
Vicarius and he very explicitly said I'm
going to do it as a PBC. We're going to
try to create AGI and uh if we create
AGI, we don't want to be uh you know
sort of forced into a paperclip
maximization world where you have AGI
and it's self-improving and then anyone
uh any shareholder could come and say
actually we're not maximizing enough.
And then you helped um design the
long-term benefit trust for Anthropic.
>> Yeah.
>> So I'm curious. I mean what was that
like? Oh, it was wild.
>> Yeah. Listen,
>> I do not take credit for Anthropic
success. Okay, just for the record, like
I played only a bit part and all credit
to Daario and Daniela and the whole
team.
>> They're on such a run. Love them. But if
you talk to people about why is
Anthropic so successful,
>> they'll often say something like, well,
their inference costs are lower.
>> Oh, that's definitely not true right
now.
>> Yeah. Or whatever, you know, whatever it
is, right? They they have they have
better superior focus.
>> The models are fantastic.
>> The models are better. What? But like if
you ask why, you'll be like, well, they
have better technical architecture. But
why? Well, because they're better at
doing this thing or that thing. But why?
Well, without its people.
>> Yeah. It's like because they have the
best talent. Why is that? Well, because
the best people want to work there. But
why? Because they think they're the good
guys. That's like a huge recruiting
talent advantage. It's unbelievable. So
many incredible people want to work
there because they are they you ask
about the focus. Why are they so
aligned? Because everyone's on mission
because the mission is primary. But why
hasn't Anthropic been able to be bullied
from the outside? People certainly have
tried. I think part of the reason is
they have that magic formula, ethos plus
integrity. They have this ethos of AI
safety. Whatever you whether you agree
with it or not, they really believe it.
I remember I met them now. They're world
beaters, I know, but I remember meeting
them when they had just left OpenAI.
Their team was very aligned. The people
that were leaving people were leaving a
really lucrative job behind to do this.
So people really were there for the
mission. They had what they thought were
really aligned investors, including Sam
Bankman Freed, who actually turned out
not so much to be, but they thought
that's what they thought at the time.
>> It would have made that whole situation
whole. Apparently,
>> the stake that the bankruptcy has of
those shares is worth more than the
whole than all of all the entire fraud
by a lot. And it's going to be worth
even more when when the time comes.
Yeah. So, like one of the most bizarre
situations in history.
>> It's pretty wild. And in spite of having
so carefully curated their cap table,
like one of the most tightly curated cap
tables I've ever seen for a company like
this, a huge chunk of the company w up
being sold at auction in a bankruptcy
auction. Like how crazy is that? So
anyway, people always think if I just
curate, if I just choose the right
people, well, they thought they had, but
they were also really worried about this
paperclip maximizer thing. Like what
happens if we're sold to the highest
bidder? What happens? Well, they
understood this technology is going to
be worth trillions if it works. the
incentive to take it over is going to be
unbelievable. So, we need a structure
strong enough. And so, we talked just
like we're talking now. We had the same
conversation then that we're having now.
Again, credit to them for actually doing
the work. But, I remember working with
them on their charter and they had to
defend this idea for 2 years because
they kept writing it into the term
sheets that they would do it, would do
it, would do it. But, it took time to
like figure out what they wanted to do.
I think it was the series C when they
finally established this thing called
the long-term benefit trust, which is
not a nonprofit foundation. It's
actually what's called a perpetual
purpose trust, which is a different
legal category, but the same idea,
outside trustees who have the power to
appoint directors to the for-profit
board. People very frequently ask me,
why is Anthropic the most courageous of
the AI labs? I think this is part of the
reason why they have this structural
strength to stand up for what they
believe. And if you notice, when
companies stand up and do the right
thing, we live in such a polarized time.
It's like, what do you mean the right
thing? Are you saying they're absolutely
right? They're the morally perfect. No,
you want me to criticize anthropic? I
can think of lots of things. When I say
they did the right thing, they acted
consistent with their own values. Those
values are consistent with human
flourishing and they have the strength
to defend them. So I know a lot of
people even in San Francisco, like San
Francisco, a lot of turmoil right now.
Tech companies are not the most popular
here right now. AI companies maybe even
less so. When Anthropic um turned down
that $200 million contract, someone sent
me a video. The sidewalks around their
headquarters have been chocked up with
people saying thank you.
>> Oh wow. Yeah,
>> man. When I tell you that San Francisco
tech company had it sidewalk chocked up,
>> thank you is not what you're not the
kind of language you're expecting. So
like because they have the strength,
they get all these counterintuitive
benefits. Claude went to number one when
they did that. They couldn't have known
that was going to happen. They could
like they and who knows what's going to
happen next. Obviously long way to go
with anthropic and with the question of
AGI, but I think the early returns are
very promising that just taking a little
bit of extra time to set this structure
up in a thoughtful way has been
incredibly valuable uh to their success.
Eric, thank you so much for joining us.
This is truly epic.
>> It's an honor. I I I really think this
is a message that YC founders need to
hear and pay attention to. So, I'm just
I'm really excited to see this finally
get out in the world.