Title: AI Is Unlocking Millions Of New Builders
Video ID: 8SVocWnDHwE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8SVocWnDHwE
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-03-16T13:00:14Z
Duration: PT39M33S
Views: 47678
Likes: 763
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1349

Description:
In this episode of The Lightcone, we talk with Mukund and Madhav Jha, the founders of Emergent - an AI platform that lets anyone build and ship production-ready software. In just eight months, users have created more than 7 million apps on Emergent, with the number doubling in just the last 45 days. We discuss how they built one of the most powerful AI coding agents, why they focused on non-technical users and what it's like building for a global audience from India.

Apply to Y Combinator: http

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So, I think now we are just truly seeing
this unlock where
people who who were like really close to
problem, domain expert,
and but have been blocked by, you know,
technology barrier to sort of really
express themselves are using Emergent to
sort of build these things out.
>> There's just so much focus on AI's going
to replace jobs, knowledge work is going
away, like what's that going to mean for
employment and civil unrest. But like no
one's really talking about the fact that
actually like if you have like some
agency of interest and you want to start
your own business and have autonomy over
your life, like you are empowering that
at scale.
Welcome back to another episode of The
Latent Unfortunately, Garry got called
to jury duty and can't be with here with
us today. But we are really excited to
be joined by Mukund and Madhav Jha.
They're both twin brothers and founders
of Emergent, which went through YC in
summer 2024. Emergent's a platform that
lets anyone build and ship production
ready software using AI agents. You guys
are actually one of the fastest growing
companies I believe YC's ever funded.
I mean the statistics you were telling
us were mind-blowing. You have in 8
months since launch, 7 million apps have
been built with Emergent. Walk us
through
this like incredible growth you're
seeing. Actually, when did that hit a
real inflection point and how did that
that feel for you guys? So, we Well,
that we're twin brothers. We actually
you know, started programming when we
were age 12. Both of us came to the US
to do our PhDs. I dropped out of the PhD
program, joined Google, and Maddy went
on to
was at Zenefits and went on to start the
deep learning team at Amazon. And we've
been meaning to do a startup together
for a long time.
And
before this I was running a startup in
India called Dunzo, which was a
hyperlocal quick commerce company. Um
Dunzo was a big company actually, right?
>> it was it was really big and and we we
were almost a verb in India. So, when
people ship something they say Dunzo it.
And and I was managing a really large
team of 300 engineers when, you know,
and we've been sort of watching the deep
learning field for a while and we knew
an inflection point is coming. One of
the things that I observed when I was
running this large engineering team was
that software testing was the biggest
bottleneck in shipping fast. So when we
started looking at, you know, what we
want to build in AI, that was the first
idea we had.
>> What year was this? This was 23 end.
Yeah, and and so when we applied to YC,
like we applied with this idea of
automating software testing. That was
the first idea. In fact, we went to a
lot of VCs with this idea. They thought
it was too crazy. You know, and and now
looking back it it it almost looks
funny. And so we applied to YC with this
idea and and when we were building this
testing agents, we realized that if you
can solve for verification, which is
essentially, you know, you can solve the
the testing part, you can actually
automate all of software engineering.
That was sort of our key insight that
like, you know, verification is the loop
which sort of keeps agent running for a
longer longer period of time. And that's
when we pivoted to looking at general
coding agent as a space and we started
building general coding agent. And this
takes us into 2024. This is 2024. 2024.
Yeah, tell us what the landscape looked
like. Like how big was lovable at this
point and just I mean, nobody had
started. Lovable had not started. I
think Cursor was just just getting
getting getting started. And very very
early. I think Devin had just come out.
So so really really early. And and we
looked at this benchmark called
SweetBench, which is essentially a
benchmark. Now it's saturated, but at
that point of time, like that was the
benchmark where all of the coding agents
were getting measured on. And we took on
this challenge of becoming number one on
that benchmark. And like we sort of
packed ourselves in a room, four of us,
and said, "Okay, let's just look at this
benchmark. How do we crack it?" That
sort of set the foundation for Emergent.
And we built, you know, Soda coding
agents, which became world number one on
SweetBench, you know, in two months of
time.
And that was the time when we sort of
discovered a lot of the fundamental
truths about building with LLMs,
building with agents.
>> intended user at this point, I'm
presuming are engineers. Yeah, at that
point we were like purely just a
research company, just building coding
agents. We were not thinking about a
product. That was the time when we sort
of invented the multi-agent system. We
invented memory. We invented like how
how do we do agent-to-agent
communication? How do you scale up test
time compute?
A lot of those things which like were
sort of coming out like we would we
would discover something and we'll see 3
months later something come out in a
paper. Uh you know, and that sort of set
the foundation for for us to so So we
were like cloud code before cloud code
was a thing. Bunch of the paradigms like
multi-agent orchestration, how do you
use like different different routings? A
lot of those things we we sort of
discovered I definitely want to come
back to that. I'm curious at this point
in the story that when did you sort of
pivot into becoming a tool for
non-technical uses?
>> Yeah. Yeah, so we actually like once we
had this coding agent we actually went
the enterprise route. That was the
common wisdom at that point that hey
like go to enterprise, build for
enterprise. And we spent like 2-3 months
trying to uh you know, make our agents
work within enterprise. We found that it
was too slow. And at the same time we
were internally started using
Emergence's platform to build internal
tools and internal software. And at that
point, you know, we saw like Level 5 was
growing like crazy, Bolt was growing
like crazy. Uh so we thought hey why
don't we have this you know, really
strong coding agent? How do we sort of
package it and and and bring it out in
the world? And we launched a very like
small we did a pro-
pilot almost in June last year 20 25.
And that really took off. And and since
then, you know, like we've been just
focused on solving a problem for
non-consumers. We in fact thought a lot
of technical people would use use us.
But today 80% of users who are on the
platform are non-technical users with
zero programming knowledge. Uh and
they're building like apps that that run
real businesses on top of today. So it's
almost been And they're based all around
the world, right? Like how many
countries?
>> they're all global audience. 80% um
70-80% are in US, Europe, over 190
countries right now. Something that we
and have talked a bunch about at YC
internally is just um
how does first mover advantage versus
second mover advantage play out in the
AI world? Certainly something that we've
noticed like if we look at some of our
company like Legora entered the legal AI
space after Harvey but is like growing
incredibly fast. So there was clearly
wasn't maybe as big of a moat around
being a first mover um
as you traditionally think there is in
software.
When you guys made that sort of the
pivot or the slight change in direction
into non-technical users at a time when
Lava Bowl and Bolt are growing really
really quickly,
how did you think about that? There are
like two two three different different
threads that I would want to pull. One
essentially is that I think the the
model
every new model generation actually is
presenting a new opportunity of looking
at the world. Like for example, when we
started GPT-4 was the the first model
that we sort of started looking at and
at the end of the biggest problem that
everybody was trying to solve was JSON
parsing, like hey, structured output
format. And we thought, okay, like the
next model is going to solve for it. You
know, like let's not spend time on that.
And I think with every new model, what's
happening is that you need to to start
reimagining the world. For example, like
Opus is a different class of model right
now. It's going to enable
extremely long horizon tasks. It's going
to enable like multiple agents
coordinating together. And so I think
like one of the advantages of starting
second, right, is that you can actually
one like learn from what is what is not
working for the current uh current
right? And also I think you
fundamentally start from a different
starting point, right? Like where you
like your approach to the world is like
very different. Like you your
imagination is is really big, right? And
I think and and when we we were starting
Emergent, we realized that like a lot of
the users that were going to, you know,
some of these these apps, they wanted to
actually really build an app that works,
right? And most of these were actually
like really really optimized for
front-end prototyping at that point. So
we started fundamentally reimagining
that, okay, what would world look like
if you could actually ship things to
production. And our key insight was that
to automate all of software engineering,
you will have to build a platform that
replicates what what best engineering
team do, like code reviews, automated
testing, debugging, deployment,
security, hosting. So we reimagined the
entire platform from ground up saying,
what would an end-to-end platform look
like? And the real user need was
actually to ship the product, not not
just the front-end prototyping. I think
second thing is like how do you sort of
get the distribution because you're
coming from behind, right? So even if
your product is really really strong,
and fundamentally I think you'll have to
enter the market with a really really
strong product, which is, you know, head
and shoulder above what what what exists
in the market today for people to take
notice. Um we were very confident about
the product. And and so a lot of our
focus is like in the early days once we
sort of launched was on how do we sort
of rapidly scale up distribution. Um we
built out a a large influencer network,
and that was our initial sort of, you
know, starting point for us. Like we
used Tik Tok, Instagram, and partnered
with a bunch of influencers to really
really spread the word out. And and
that's sort of, you know, kick-started
the whole thing for us.
>> So, to me, so building the influencer
marketing engine is like um
it's like tactics to land crab. Like
were you also thinking about just
focusing on
personas and specific subtypes of users
you wanted to go after that weren't like
either weren't being targeted by Level
Up
or others or or Emergence was a better
fit for them?
I mean, our our thesis was that like
there were a lot of users who would want
to build serious applications, right?
And that was our sort of target
audience. And a lot of our marketing, a
lot of our initial messaging was around
that. Like, "Hey, come and ship
real software." What we did was like a
little bit broad broad-based like
marketing. And and but users that um you
know, were coming to the platform that
we would convert were users who actually
wanted to ship a real real app uh on the
platform. And was that in the messaging
then? I it was in the messaging, yeah.
So, so we would say, "Hey, come and
build real apps." We would also use the
common errors that you would see on
other platform, you know, like, "Hey,
don't don't see don't face this error on
Emergence." It seems like a key insight
for you. Basically, you went very
hardcore in terms of being maximalist in
engineering from your experience having
run large engineering teams at 300
engineers, having worked on deep
learning teams at Amazon. You really
knew how to architect the systems. Can
you maybe uh share a bit how you built
it? One of the cons of all these other
big products like Level Up or Bolt is
just that it's it's difficult to get
those into a fully usable. You can get
to a prototype very quickly, but yours
you went zero to 100% very quickly, and
that takes finesse. It's almost like
that 20% gets 80% effort like the Pareto
principle, but you you did more than
that, the last 20% of that engineering
to be production was a lot of work, and
that's a lot. Yeah, and I think like the
the last mile that you mentioned, right,
is is always what people neglect, that
hey, you need to make sure that not not
only app gets built, it also gets
deployed. And this is one of the
conscious reasons why we chose to build
our own infra on which the agent is like
running. So, like we provide like you
know, cloud sandboxes.
We don't outsource it to like some
third-party sandbox provider, which was
also pretty popular at that time, right?
So, we we built our own Kubernetes tech
stack from ground up,
the container tech stack. And one of the
insights here is that if you give your
agents the same infra during the build
time and the same infra during the
deploy time, then the sort of like
during this like deployment phase, you
don't encounter those many problems,
right? And the fact that we have our own
infra also allows us to give like rapid
feedback to the agent. So, your agent is
only as good as the feedback that you
provide. So, we build this like sort of
infra and agent like sort of co-build it
together and from the from from day one.
And to your point, right, like
because we we focused on, you know,
building like ship-ready apps, which
which are production-ready, which has
which comes with back end and and front
end and everything. The tech stack we
chose was also pretty unique to us. We
have a Python back end server. We have a
React front end server. Like most people
would like typically go with like a much
more like, you know, node node-focused
node-heavy tech stack, right? And and
this like server-client architecture
where you can have like background jobs
if you want to have background queues.
So, we knew that, you know, users who
would who would use this app, their
ambitions are going to go bigger and
bigger, right? Hey, I want to run a job
which can like do this asynchronous
video processing, you know, and they're
going to prompt it, and we wanted to
support it from day one, right? And so,
it's the same tech stack on which
Emergent is built is what we expose to
our end users, is what we expose to our
agents, right?
On the agent side, we were very early on
the multi-agent architecture. So, we
knew that you want to be very frugal
about your context management. So, what
you do is, hey, let the main agent, the
driving agent, handle the the main
routine, but any delegated task that you
want to delegate you delegate to a sub
agent. Be it like testing, be it like,
hey, I want to do a design
uh search or I want to do like, you
know, integration search. Like, how do I
integrate this unique API? Um
and along the way when we were like
finding all doing all of this, we were
able to figure out, okay, all the
trajectories that we are generating, we
can kind of aggregate over time and like
sort of build in a long-term memory for
the agent, which is very unique in the
sense that uh your agent learns not just
from your own session, it learns across
the sessions. This is something I would
say is one variant of continual learning
uh that people are like uh interested in
now. Uh you would have noticed that
people are interested in skills. Uh
like, people create like skills and uh
the uh there's a new benchmark called
Skills Bench, which shows like agent
with skills outperform agent without
skills. Uh and interestingly, like,
those skills cannot be generated by
agent themselves. Like, if you generate
those skills by agents, they don't like
uh match up to the performance. So, we
were able to do it in a way where the
skills get auto
you know, sort of uh they are generated
based on previous trajectories and we
run it through a CICD process and then
add it to the long-term memory.
Uh so, all of that like compounds for
us, right? So, if you if if your agent
was struggling to do a calendar
integration 3 weeks ago, uh today it is
no longer struggling thanks to the uh
the previous session where it was able
to make it happen. So, it's fascinating.
So, it learns on its own because I think
one of the challenges of all these uh
live coding app platforms is
at some point the application will get
so complex that if you build it very
simply, you would run out of uh the
context window for all the models
because that seemed to be the the
bottleneck. And I think you guys
architected your way out. So, you kind
of built a lot of uh what the state of
the art is now, but way back a year
before. Our coding agent is so powerful
that we basically internally use it uh
as a replacement for cloud code as
developers, right? So, we uh we are so
proud of that and uh but yet we don't
want to expose that uh sort of you know,
power tool to our end non-technical
user. And so we even though we have this
VS code editor, we kind of hide it uh,
because what we have noticed is that
non-technical users, they even get
panicked as soon as they see a diff, you
know? Uh, we we we had a like a fairly
technical PM in our team and uh, like he
doesn't like like JSON, you know, he's
like, "No, don't show me, you know, I I
get intimidated." So building that user
empathy where you have that user empathy
and building that agent empathy. You
also have to empathize with your agents.
What is What is What is agent feeling
like, right?
>> have a term called agent experience,
right? That we measure that how like how
how is agent's experience on the
platform. Actually a really important
point I think people don't realize is
you guys actually you actually started
out essentially as sort of Devin cursor
in like the actual like coding agent
world for engineers. You just made the
choice to package it up for
non-technical users. So you're sort of
like moving almost in the opposite
direction from like lovable. Like you
have like the power you have all of the
actual like power, you just need to
simplify the user experience. Whereas
they like sort of have like start with
the user experience and they're going to
have to develop the power over time.
Right. And I think fundamentally it's
like unless you start from you know, a
starting point which which sort of
solves all of these problems along the
line, the whole software development
life cycle is actually really hard to
come from the other side and solve these
problems because you you'll make some
architectural choices which are very
hard to reverse. Do you have any more
I'm really curious like any more
examples of where sort as you're
engineering the system you just sort of
just chucked in the models? Like you
mentioned thing, but was there anything
else where you're like
let's not invest time in that because
like Opus 4.5 will will solve it. I mean
some of them has has been for example,
you know, like library definition, some
of the integrations that we have sort of
built like you know, we think that
next sort of model should solve in
products. Similarly, like how do you
generate unit tests? Some of those
things that we we actually like would
have heavily prompted before. And the
other thing that we are very conscious
of is that how do we give more and more
autonomy to the models as they
the next generation come out. And the
more autonomy you're able to give to the
the models the the better they perform.
Like initially like our hardness was
very strict and you know like we would
we would tighten it up and and slowly
like what we were observing is that as
these models are getting larger and
larger more more more efficient like you
know like the more control you give to
the model this is making the better the
the hardness gets. If we extrapolate
that out also like really far out, are
you worried about where that sort of
leaves you as a company versus the mod
like the models themselves and the
models get more powerful? Yeah, I think
there is this underlying current like
not right in the industry that that hey
like is is you know like I'm talking
going to eat everybody up. Yeah, I mean
our view is that I think
the the coding aspect is only 20% of the
job, right? I think like taking an app
to production is like really really
hard. And and I think what what matters
is how closely are you working with the
user how how well do you understand
their needs? And I think as the models
are going to get more and more sort of
capable, I think the the human desire is
also continuously growing at the same
rate. So I think people are going to
want to build more complex apps on the
platform. The other thing is that it is
with our hardness we're able to extract
23% more on top of these models and and
essentially like we can use multiple
foundation models together to sort of
extract more. And I think we'll have to
keep continuing
you know like delivering more and more
things to our users. For example now
we're thinking about like a lot of our
users who have built the app now want to
help with distribution. Now I want to
help with growth. Now I want to help
with like how do you sort of you know
manage users and things like that. And I
think for us the spectrum sort of keeps
growing on that side. I agree with that.
I mean there's there's another graph
that I was shared recently is just like
the number of software engineering
positions available is actually going
up, right? And I feel like at least
internally at YC we're experiencing
this. It's like the more powerful the
tools get the more ideas you get and the
more work you want to do and it just
feels like everyone here is working like
more hours and more stuff. And it's just
like the rate of like software that
you're expected to ship per week just
keeps going up and up and up.
Absolutely, yes. So, hedonistic
adaptation to, you know, like, "Hey, oh,
this is more powerful. Now I can do more
work." Yeah. It is really a Jevons
paradox at play. And I I think there's a
lot of uh concerns like, "Oh, the
software engineering jobs will be gone."
I don't think that's the case. I mean,
based on everything that you're telling
us and what we've experienced. I mean, I
think we're we're in an expanding
market, right? Like, we are like letting
non-developers now be developers, right?
I think, you know, that market is
expanding. We also are internally seeing
like the role sort of combining. So,
like a PM, a designer, engineer, like a
single person is doing
you know, like work of all all three
together, right? So, like we have a PM
who's like coding uh internally things.
Uh and recently like we um so, we are
seeing this internally right now where
um a lot of the work that was done by
like five, six people team can now be
just done by like single engineer or
single PM. YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at ycombinator.com/apply.
It's never too early, and filling out
the app will level up your idea. Okay,
back to the video. Could we see a demo
of emergent? Oh, yeah, sure. Yeah, so,
this is how what emergent interface
looks like. And I'm going to like put a
prompt where like because we were coming
for this podcast, I thought like, you
know, there should be an app which lets
you practice, you know, uh podcast
questions. Or maybe you are going to a
job interview and you want to practice
questions, right? So, you can build a
full stack app on on emergent. You can
build a mobile app. Our prompt engine is
smart enough that once you give it a
prompt, it will figure out that this is
talking about a mobile app. So, it'll
figure out like, "Hey, the the right
agent to use is is a mobile app builder,
right?" So, even though you had like
selected the wrong tab, it's just like,
"Yeah, like Yeah, yeah, the behind the
scenes auto Yeah, I got you, right? So,
while while this is running, let me
quickly also uh show you a few uh user
apps. So, this is by somebody based out
of Illinois. He's a sort of has a
business of audio video setup uh that
they do like on a as manually, right?
So, basically whatever this kind of like
intake form they would have taken
through spreadsheet and other calls,
they basically build this out without
any coding background knowledge, right?
Like, "Hey, this is the kind of AV setup
I want."
So, you you go and you build your room
and then you get It's a lead gen sort of
a form, but this is a fairly full stack
up.
>> One thing I noticed about that is like
the design is really good. Like, the
icons like it just like it looks like a
well-designed app. So, we have actually
spent a lot of time on making sure the
design is actually good. Yeah.
>> Like, so earlier there used to be a big
trade-off between design and
functionality. Like, if you are
optimizing for design, like your
functionality would not be that strong.
And so, we had to figure out like how do
we sort of, you know, share the context
in a way where design also gets better.
There is another sort of person based
out of Norway. He he sold his previous
business to a PE and and realized how
much lawyers have to struggle with
spreadsheets and other things. So, he
built a CRM for lawyers. He he describes
himself as like business developer. I
like the word he used, like, "I'm a
business developer." And he doesn't have
a programming background. So, a lot of
CRM-related apps we are seeing small
businesses as your second monetization
avenue, right? And so, like one of the
unique things with Emergent is that
before agent goes off to build things,
it asks you for some clarification
because agent wants to make sure that it
understood your your requirements
properly. And another thing is that
non-technical users probably don't know
the concept of API key. How do I get an
OpenAI API key? So, in this particular
case, I can just say, "Hey, use Emergent
LLM key." So, you don't have to worry
about getting API key from third party.
This shows a huge example of what you
were saying
cuz this is so like the Aussie question
skill and code, but you just like
abstract that away, but you still build
it into the experience for someone who
had no idea about Absolutely. I can be
very like casually I can say, "Hey, for
the first one use Emergent API key, rest
assured good defaults and then go." This
is the first time I hand off the agent.
And like at this point I can just like
close my laptop. We also have a mobile
app, so you can like on the go keep
trying to prompt agent if if agent
requires additional
thing. Once it's done, Uh, you see a
preview of your app. So, here for
example, in this case, I can practice
what is my origin story. Uh, I can
record uh, what my origin story is, and
I can keep going to, you know, various
questions. Uh, eventually
>> This is a podcast preparation app. Yeah.
And then you can go ahead and revisit
what answers you gave uh, to your uh,
app. And so, what we have noticed is
that a lot of personal apps people use,
people build mobile apps, but a lot of
business apps they would go and build a
web app, right? So, uh, that's generally
the trend we are seeing. The only other
thing I wanted to show was
Uh, this is This is an actual Asana
clone that our team built, like one of
our QA engineers built internally. Mhm.
And uh, so this is actual real Emergent
data. I'm curious what prompted that.
Like, was this some Was this some
feature that Asana was lacking, or
something it wasn't doing that made them
say, "Hey, we should just build our
own"? Yeah, it kind of like started off
as a QA uh, engineer's curiosity. He He
like his first prompt I looked at his
all jobs, the first prompt was clone
Jira. Okay. And then like he just kept
going with that, and uh, and I think the
other thing is we do have do things a
little bit differently. So, for example,
we ship like three times a day, morning,
evening, night. So, kind of like built
it very customized to the way we do
things. Like, we have a QA uh,
involvement in in in many many ways. Uh,
and definitely like we when we were
using Asana, it was very Uh,
like even to customize it to to make it
to your uh,
work style was not easy. And then we
have we have we are also saving like
around like $3,000 $4,000 a month in
subscription. Yeah, so we do so well at
the personal software. Yeah, has anybody
actually edited the code for this, or is
this 100% built built with Emergent?
>> 100% built with Emergent, and and the
good thing is that like if I want to add
a feature, I have to just go to that uh,
you know, project, and just add a
feature, and it just starts building.
It's probably useful for you guys to
dogfood the platform this way, cuz this
is probably at the edge of the of the of
the most complex apps people have built
with Emergent. So, it allows you to test
what happens when people get to a very
complex app like this. In fact, like a
lot of the teams internally are now
building, um, you know, apps using
Emergent internally. So, we have like
our marketing team built out of complete
CRM, completely built on Emergent. We
are now, like, uh, our customer support
team is building customer support
software, uh, completely built on
Emergent. And the power is that these
are people who are closest to the
problem, like, who, you know, who
understand the problem really, really
well and are able to now build uh, these
apps. And the speed at which we are able
to ship, you know, these internal apps
is like crazy. How far down does it go
though? I'm curious, like, even within
the company, do you have people who want
their like separate versions of like
your internal Asana? So, currently,
like,
everybody in the company is using this
this one tool right now. And and and it
is collaboratively being built
collaboratively, right? So, like, you
know, a PM can give a feature, a QA can
give a feature, uh, somebody from our HR
team can give a feature to to sort of
build that out right now. How do you
think this sort of version control,
like, and feature flagging, all this
stuff like develops in a world where
anyone could just like write a couple of
sentences to update the software they're
using?
>> Yeah, so so there there there is a
testing testing phase, there's a
deployment phase, right? So, we have
different versions maintained, uh,
right? And and there is a primary owner
of the software, like, who actually
manages this right now. And and so, it
it was it was like somebody will make a
feature request,
uh, somebody will sort of build that out
as an the agent will build that out, and
then, like, once it's accepted, then
it'll it'll go to the release. It's not
managed through Git though. It's like
your own workflow thing. So, you can
connect GitHub if you want to. Like, we
internally connect GitHub for our
projects, right? And, uh, like, if
non-technical developers are outside of
Emergent, uh,
I'm going to like they actually call
GitHub GitHub, right? So, they they have
very, uh, like, limited, uh, knowledge
of GitHub. And so, they we we take care
of like versioning on our side even if
they don't connect GitHub. It's all
about how you run your team.
The way you hire must be very different.
I mean, you're a very lean and small
team. How do you hire for engineering?
Yeah, so we we actually from from day
one have been very conscious of the kind
of team that we want to build. And
essentially, like, we index on two
things. One is problem solving, like,
how good are at problem solving. Uh and
second is ownership. Like we think that
people who can like really really take
ownership, uh you know, like we index on
that. And a lot of our early sort of
hires were people like, you know, we
were we were really obsessed with like
top 100 IIT rankers. So we had this like
program going on where like I told, you
know, our team that hey, we must hire
like top 100 IIT rankers. Uh right now I
think we have like IIT rank one, IIT
rank 12, uh
all those people working with us. And a
lot of the initial that also came from
Dunzo so I because I was able to build
like a really really good team. We were
able to get some some initial folks from
that. The focus that that we have is is
essentially like one or two people doing
work of what a company would be doing.
For example, our deployment which almost
mirrors what what we're selling would
look like is done by two people. Like
our memory like where you have like
multiple startups solving for memory is
just built by one person. So I think
like they like we give way more
responsibility to people. And I think
people are generally attracted towards
harder problems that they want to solve.
Where's your team located? So most of
the team right now is in Bangalore in
India office. We have a very small
office in SF like three to five people
here. And you guys yourselves you're
kind of like split across both
countries. Can you maybe just explain
how how the setup works? Yeah, so I mean
I I I live here in SF. I've been in like
you know, Bay Area for like last 10
years. I split half my time in SF, half
my time in Bangalore, constantly jet
lagged. I think you guys are probably
the most successful AI company that sort
of it's obvious it came from like that
it's an Indian company but that's got
like significant presence in India. Um
why is that? I mean I think it's like
when I went back to India, you know,
after Google and I always had this
thought that why is there no Google or
Facebook from India, right? So like from
day zero I was thinking, you know, even
though I started Dunzo, it was an India
India focused company at that time. And
when I was starting the second company,
I always thought like hey, there has to
be, you know, like we have so much
talent, we have, you know, so
a lot of now capital available,
everything is available in India. Like
why are people not building globally
global tech first companies from India?
And and that was the ambition that that
we started with. And in my opinion, I
think a lot of it is with, you know,
like just your ambition. Like if you if
you just dream big, if you're able to
sort of really really um think uh global
from day zero. I think now because
internet is sort of fully penetrated,
people people can actually get
understanding knowledge from everywhere.
I think every single, you know, country
has an opportunity to build for global
audience. And if you have that sort of
mindset, that ambition, I I I think I
think lot I we'll see a lot more
companies coming out of India doing the
same. I'm curious to hear what it's
actually like sort of on the ground
running
this sort of like split country
company where the team is mostly in
India, but the product is overwhelmingly
used in the US and after in Europe. It's
not a product for the Indian market at
all. What is it like running this
company? How would it be different if
you had built a normal Silicon Valley
style company that was all based here?
Internally we have like really really
set really high standards like as a as a
as a global sort of product. I mean,
both in hiring, both in like the way we
sort of develop product. Uh and I think
us spending sort of time here also also
helps. Like one of the things that we do
really religiously is everybody talks to
a customer once a week, twice a week.
>> Like everyone in the entire company?
>> Everyone in the company, right? Uh they
talk to a customer. Everybody does
customer support. So like we were like a
really really small engineering team,
like 12 people team, and one person was
always on call for customer support. It
was really hard to do this for us
because, you know, you're a really small
team and you need to ship really fast
and then move like one of your best
engineers out to do customer support was
really hard, but I think that really
really helped us build the customer
empathy from day zero. And I think given
that like a lot of our distribution
happens online, like you know, like the
team is able to learn uh from digital
things and build for it. But I think us
building that customer empathy from day
zero, like talking to our users, like
really really helped us bridge the gap
uh you know, uh in terms of like what
our users want uh today. And uh it's
funny because like when we launched my
first like five days I was just glued to
a desk doing customer service uh support
uh only. And most of the customer
requests were coming in in in different
language, like you know, French, German,
because a lot of lot of these are
global. And thanks to AI like we were
able to understand that, reply to that,
and I think that that that uh you know
like is also helping you know us bridge
the gap there, yeah. And we are hiring
here in SF. So,
if anybody is you know interested in you
know joining in various positions like
be it research across the board like
back end engineers, front end engineers.
We are hiring here in SF and in
Bangalore. I love scale back actually is
what we were talking about. So,
regarding personalized software, and
what do you think the implications are
for SAS in general? You know like I have
to provoke the question is this SAS dead
now? I mean you guys have essentially
killed Asana for yourselves. So, is that
bad for Asana and other SAS companies?
>> I definitely think that like the current
way SAS is existing today needs to
change, right? I think like I feel there
are two like sort of massive headwinds.
One is more and more of these SAS
workflows are going to get consumed by
an agent, right? Like so like
you know unless your SAS company pivots
into like an agent first company, you
know I I think that's going to be hard
to sort of survive. And second headwind
is obviously like you know like people
would want more and more customized
software like which they can build on
Emergent just like we built you know our
own do it project management tool. And
we are seeing a lot of these people
you know building these internal tools
this software on on platform like ours.
And like I feel the nature of software
itself is changing. I think a lot more
software will will become agentic in
nature.
A lot of people are building on Emergent
today like roughly 20% of them are
actually agentic apps. So, people are
actually you know embedding our own
Emergent agent inside those apps to sort
of
you know power a bunch of the workflows.
So, you just have some interesting that
sounds really cool. Any interesting
examples of people doing that? Yeah, I
mean I have like the
app that Manny was just showing you know
the CRM for lawyers that is an agentic
app where you know an agent can take a
workflow and and run run through the
process. The software itself is now
morphing into you know agentic like a
lot of lot of people would just want to
you know build agents that can actually
just do
you know a lot lot lot more of the work
on their own. Where do you think this
goes as agents horizon for task gets
longer longer? I mean, one of the the
meter
>> to
>> yeah? chart is one of the ones that was
very shocking recently. Yeah, I think
that's the chart of the year, I would
say, right? Like the the meters
exponential growth and and like 4.5 was
that like I think 4 hours and 4.6 is at
10 hours.
Uh, and we are internally sort of now
like, you know, experimenting with agent
swarms where agents can actually like
work
for much longer horizon and multiple
agents can sort of coordinate on a
single task. Uh,
I think these are also like pretty
pretty exciting.
You know, we'll see. I think I think by
end of the year you'll have, you know,
agents which are running 24 hours.
Uh, and like maybe hundreds of agents
collaborating on the single task. And
that's where that's where we sort of see
the future going right now. How are you
building for that? People's submissions
are increasing, right? Like and so like
we we want to like give agents more
autonomy, right? And so like the the the
main thing is to make sure that the
trajectory doesn't get derailed. So you
always want to have like an overseeing
agent, right? Like so it's like let's
say a few agents are collaborating, then
there is an overseeing agent as well,
which is like parallelly like monitoring
the overall task, right? So so we are
experimenting with many different
architectures, right? Like something
even as simple as like just,
you know, you would have heard of this
Ralph Bigum loop kind of a phenomena,
right? Like so the idea that, "Hey, like
just keep poking the agent, hey,
continue until it's done." And all of
that is only possible if there is a good
verification loop, right? So it comes
back to, "Hey, are you able to give
autonomous verification feedback to the
agent? Like was the job done?" So a lot
of our work internally right now is in
fact still going on on building best
verifiers. There we are actually
doing some custom fine-tuning as well.
So we are very careful about like not
directly competing with the models in
the sense that we don't want to like
build a Opus 4.5 alternative right away,
but we do want to augment it through our
custom fine-tune verification layers. So
so some of the fun stuff we on the
research side we are doing is on that
side. How do you think about sort of
moving in the opposite direction? I
mean, we talked about sort of like the
models themselves maybe getting more
powerful and what does that mean for
everyone building on top of them? But
how about at least some of the model
companies are explicitly trying to build
applications and own the application
layer themselves. If one of those
companies decides that, you know, code
code for non-technical users is a really
valuable application to build,
what implications does that have for
you? I mean, I think eventually
eventually I think like
you understand the customer's
requirement really well. I will be in
close to them. I think I think all of
those fundamentals of like startup
building remains the same. And I think,
you know, like for us like
as long as we are focused on like really
really understanding our users need
really really best, I think, you know,
we'll we'll compete on the product side.
>> I mean, maybe do you think about all the
model companies is like the same or are
there differences between them? If you
look at the models themselves, right?
Like they're very different. Like for
example, you know, Opus is obviously a
workhorse. You know, like Codex is
really good in back-end debugging.
Gemini is really good in front
front-end. So, I think all of these
models have their own behaviors. And and
and one of the like a good thing for us
is that we can actually utilize these
spikes that model have like to to
provide the best experience to the user.
And I think eventually like at least my
worldview is that most of these models
are going to get get really really
commoditized like where all of these
models will have similar behaviors.
They'll have, you know, price price
competitiveness
between them and and
you can already see like, you know, like
open source is like maybe 3 to 6 months
behind, right? And and there's enough
optionality for us to sort of really
really build the layer on top where we
really meet the user where they are and
and sort of support them in in sort of
their their journey. Who understands the
customer needs really really well and
and is able to build for that is going
to sort of win the space. Users have
built 7 million apps with a merchant.
What are all these apps? Who who are the
users and what surprise do you see in
what people do with it? The users who
are coming to platform for us are
generally people who want to build a
serious apps. People who like really
really have a business use case that
they want to automate or they have a
business idea that they want to launch.
Primary users who are coming to us are
small medium business owners. They're
running their business today on on
email, WhatsApp, spreadsheet,
and would have gone to a dev shop to
sort of build a custom software to run
automate their business, they're coming
to us. And if you look at the price
point that, you know, we're bringing
down, it would have cost you like
$500,000 to build the software. Now you
can build it for $5,000 completely on
your own.
And that is the kind of, you know, like
unlock that we are sort of bringing to
the world right now.
Second, for example, this morning I was
talking to user Christie. She is based
out of Alaska,
and she built this She's a clinical
psychologist. She's also
a sports coach for equestrian, the horse
riding. And she wanted to marry these
two fields, like you know, like that.
She has a lot of insights on psychology
side, she has a lot of insight on on
horse riding side. And And she said she
looked around everywhere to find an app
that does that. And she couldn't find
one. So she wanted to build one. She
actually went to a dev shop
>> Yeah, that's definitely the intersection
where she is.
And she went to a dev shop in Nova
Scotia and tried to find somebody who
can build it. They were charging a lot
of bomb, so she then discovered
Emergent, start building out. And she
she just launched her app like a couple
of weeks back. It's called EquiMind on
an App Store.
And it actually marries, you know, like
her insights in psychology and and and
into this this
sports coaching.
She has like hundreds of users right now
using the using platform. I think that
is the unlock that we're trying to
build. Like you know, people who would
have been
who have had an idea for a long time,
people who are like really really domain
expert very close to a problem,
can now go and build build things up. We
also have like lot of solopreneurs
building on platform, like who would
have had to go and hire a technical CTO
to to build these apps. And the success
that we are seeing on the platform is
like We saw somebody ping me that, "Hey,
like this company has raised like $4
million
on an app that was built on Emergent."
Really? Yeah, yeah.
And I need to get their permission to to
share more, but yeah. And so I think now
we are just truly seeing this unlock
where
people who who are like really close to
problem, domain expert,
and but have been blocked by, you know,
technology barrier to sort of really
express themselves are are are, you
know, like using Emergent to sort of
build these things out. And also like
one thing these people tell us that like
uh it's not just about money. Like,
"Hey, I can give money to the dev shop,
but a lot of lot get lost in the
translation when you're trying to
express your idea to the through a
developer and they say, "Hey, I know
what I want to build. If I could just
say it out my out loud myself, I would I
would do a better job." And so, the the
Norwegian uh person I was talking about
like he said that hey, "In my team, I'm
the only builder. I don't even bring in
anybody else because I know exactly what
to build and like others focus on the
business aspects of it." So, this like
single solopreneur sort of attitude of
like I'm going to do it myself. I have
the domain expertise. Nothing is lost in
translation. Uh that kind of agency is
what people are looking forward to with
these kind of platforms. Yeah, I think
it's a really important story that
doesn't get told enough actually. It's
like what you're building is really
necessary for society. Like there's just
so much focus on AI's going to replace
jobs, knowledge work is going away. Like
what's that going to mean for employment
and civil unrest, but like no one's
really talking about the fact that
actually like
if you have like some agency of interest
you want to start your own business and
have autonomy over your life, like
you're empowering that at scale. It's so
cool that like amount of human
creativity that you're unlocking. Like
who would have thought that the thing
that the world needs is an app that
marries clinical psychology with horse
riding?
>> Yeah.
Um and in a world of limited software
that app would never have been built,
but in a world of unlimited software,
you can build that and 7 million other
apps that like nobody would have ever
gotten to build before.
>> to the niche of niches. Yeah. Yeah. I
mean so Pete, this is like just an
extension of the trend PG wrote about a
while ago, right? And so, like maybe
coming out of the Second World War, you
had sort of like a few big companies and
people like
built whole careers hopefully staying at
like IBM or whatever for a couple of
decades and then retire. Then the
startup wave came along and it suddenly
like the world becomes higher
resolution. People are like, "Oh, well,
maybe I should start my own company or
at least join a smaller company and work
at multiple companies or found multiple
companies." And like the next extension
of that is just everybody like runs
their own like business that's at the
intersection of like clinical psychology
and horse riding um
and finds an audience and and life
livelihood that way. Yeah, I mean we are
excited about so many ideas coming to
life. Like we really want to like reduce
this gap between idea and reality and
and you know truly enable people to
express themselves and and and really
really like have this Cambrian explosion
of ideas like which is great for YC. I
would argue it doesn't have to be
actually. Like the whole like I think
it's a really interesting the whole like
explosion of being able to start
businesses that aren't like venture
funded, that aren't close to capital,
that is just like one person like
following their passions and like having
control over their life. I think that is
really uplifting message. I think we are
just in the early innings of this right
now. Like I think I think this explosion
is going to grow and and and we'll see
larger and larger, you know, projects
being built on emergent ideas. Okay,
well that's all we have time for today.
Mukunda Madhava, thank you so much for
joining us. It's a really fascinating
conversation and congratulations on all
the growth and we're excited to see
where things go from here. Thank you.
Thank you so much for having us.