Title: Why Ambitious Startup Ideas Are Actually Easier To Sell
Video ID: ALJQHSgCl2E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALJQHSgCl2E
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-22T14:00:36Z
Duration: PT28M42S
Views: 19475
Likes: 376
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 968

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So it is all upside. You you just can't
win on downside. It's the biggest thing
I found dealing with investors who are
stronger. Um like the investors we want
to work with are they are focused on the
what if it all works out because they
know that 99.99% of your startups upside
hasn't been done yet.
I think you're probably one of the most
interesting developer companies to come
out of YC in recent years. you did YC
winter 20, pivoted a bunch during the
batch. I think hacked together the first
version of Post Hog just before demo
day. Um, but the the more interesting
thing for me is what's happening now.
Postthog was a really really popular YC
dev tool, but it seems like you're
reshaping the company now into like sort
of to build AI native self-driving
software. Can you talk a little bit
about that, like how that happened and
where you're up to right now?
>> Sure. So yeah, Postto now provides
self-driving software. It's our new kind
of oneliner. Um, we started off by, as
you say, we're open- source product
analytics was what we launched during
the batch. Obviously, there's been a
platform shift with AI coming in. Um, in
terms of what that's meant for us, we
kind of, and I think it's worth talking
about ambition a little bit more, but we
upped the ambition of what we're doing.
And from first principles uh we which is
a very overused term but still we
decided it was fundamentally better to
entirely solve someone's job for them
rather than giving them an rough idea of
what's important. We felt it was better
to be a company that does stuff for
people rather than um an analytics
company that gives you kind of this
academic idea of how things are
performing. We want to be able to
improve your graphs and make them go up
not just tell you that they're going up
or down. You we've been working on
clustering doing a whole bunch of stuff.
We're looking to model like AI research
and all sorts of things to understand
across all the data types that we have
where your problems are in your product,
what your customers complaining about in
support. Um what's happening in your
logs and errors and session recordings
and then shipping pull requests just to
fix as many of the sort of simpler
engineering tasks that we can. Um we're
also doing a bunch of stuff at the top
end too, but that's further out from
now.
>> Okay, this is an idea I'm I'm really
really interested in. Um, I'm gonna give
a talk later today about building um, AI
native companies. And this idea of
basically sort of self-contained
recursive loops is what I'm really
really fascinated in. The idea that you
sort of you take uh, some input data and
kind of feed it to an AI with a bunch of
rules and policies and the AI does
something and uh, feeds it back into the
world and then sees how it impacts the
world and just kind of iterates on that
loop. That sounds like exactly what
you're describing at at Post Hog.
>> Yeah, and we've got a way to go. We do
have the basic this in production. As of
kind of last week, we're finally all the
components kind of together. Um, and I
think the step beyond that's kind of
interesting is there are more and more
data types you can pull from. Like it
might be a support ticket. It might be a
video clip of a user using your product.
It might be what you're talking about in
Slack. Um, and we're working a little
bit like we shipped a desktop product
recently to try and grab the intent.
We're working on trying to grab the
intent behind the product. So, as you're
prompting, understanding um, we're
working basically harness that grabs all
of the intent data from you as an
engineer. So instead of you kind of
unblocking an agent every four minutes,
it iterates with you quickly to
understand why does this product exist
rather than starting with just the
technical requirements. So it's got
something to kind of optimize towards.
>> Okay. Yeah, I could see it sort of um
being present in or at least listening
to the recordings or transcripts of like
the product meeting where you might have
a chief product officer and a CTO
talking with a designer and engineer
about what you're trying to achieve and
actually feeding that in as an input
into the into the loop.
>> Yeah, exactly. like it kind of um I
think there's no reason that you can't
build a like one things that um postto
did in the early days is my co-founder
and I were kind of I think actively bad
at product which is a tough spot to be
in if you're a product founder of a
product um and we realized in our
pivoting process we used to build lots
of products that had never before
existed at all and then we had this
moment where we went hang we're better
at out competing um and just building
kind of product growth and having doing
a better job on the marketing and the
execution side and so we started
building software products already had
competition with the AI world. We're
like, well, there's things there's so
many things that are possible that don't
exist in the world. So, we started
looking instead of looking at replacing
bits of software, we're like, well, what
are the jobs that are happening inside a
company because they're already
happening, we feel very confident we'll
have product market fit if we can just
accelerate them and do them to a better
standard. Um, so when we think about
like uh deciding what to build, y
>> a product manager usually decides what
to build in most companies. Y
>> I think a computer can do a better job
of at least it can do a superhuman job
of understanding everything that's
happening in your customer base across
every sales call, every internal
meeting, every email you get from your
customers and also all their user
behavior too. And so I do think there's
no reason really why we can't build
something that's far superior to a
product manager essentially on that
particular part of the uh product life
cycle.
>> Yeah, I totally agree. I think that's a
at once like a great horistic for
finding startup ideas and also like
pretty negative uh like human jobs but
like find the job that already exists
that you your product can like more or
either in part or in whole replace um
and it sounds like you've done that with
product management
>> yeah and I think I think the nature of a
product manager just completely changes
to being kind of the person that
configures the software and goes hey
this is how I think this should work
these are some of the rules and policies
in place so for example we have a um we
shipped a support product quite recently
um and it's got quite a lot of traction
like about 1100 companies using it. And
our review with this was like well if
we've got all this data we can also just
solve loads of the tickets better
because we really understand the user in
more depth than anyone else can without
the data. Um and the role of the support
team though it's not replacing them it's
going into and I really mean this not in
just a like
>> I would not not saying it for the sound
nice but the role of our support team is
becoming you're supporting the agents to
do their job. Um, so you're writing out
the manual, the rule book, and you're
iterating and improving, and you're kind
of becoming a philosopher for support
basically.
>> And before we move on, I have a bunch
more questions, but I I want to kind of
ground this. The product you launched
last week or so, what is the Can you
either like the most impressive or sort
of the canonical example of like turning
some product data into an actual pull
request that gets shipped that improves
product? Have you seen something so far
that's been like mind-blowing? Um, we're
just repeatedly seeing in in Slack,
someone goes, "Oh, um, ah, we're having
problems. This thing's not working. This
thing's broken, whatever." And they're
like, "Oh, there's already a pull
request for it. We just need to click
merge at this point." Hopefully, that
isn't a thing anymore in future at some
stage, too. But, um, it's just
repeatedly getting there. I I can
[laughter] just see human beings at
Postto getting there after we've the
robot has decided there's a problem and
entirely fixed it, too. Um, so yeah,
just the fact that it's so far ahead of
the game. Um I think some of the
implications of this are going to be
most interesting. Um again we need to
get this data type more. We need to do
more work on this data type but it's the
trace data for AI first products where
you're not even waiting for when you
iterate you can iterate more quickly
because you don't have to wait for the
next human being to show up. You can
backward test changes to a product to
see well what would have happened had it
had its prompting set up like this for
example or whatever else. So yeah, it's
already looking super promising. Like a
chunk of our own pull requests now
generated this way. um which just means
our developers then spending more and
more time on um like big big features,
big new services, new products.
>> Where my mind goes with that is how do
you avoid then a product that has like a
thousand tiny features and the AI has
built every one of these thousand tiny
features but they don't fit together in
into the kind of holistic product
vision.
>> I think this is the intent side and why
the harness matters so much. Like I
think the current state of harnesses is
not good is not where it will end. Put
it that way. Like I think at the moment
if you ask um Claude build me a to-do
list app it will the first question will
probably be something like well do you
want me to mock up the back end or
should I provide data or should I just
provide you with a database which
database do you want but it doesn't
question
it doesn't talk to you at all like if
you talk to an we consider them product
engineers at postto if I talk to a human
member of our team and I said hey can we
build a to-do list app please they won't
disappear and then come back with a
bunch of pull requests they'll ask me
questions like why uh is it going to be
simpler more powerful Does it is it for
a particular audience? What's special
about this thing? So, I think we're
doing a really as an industry, no one's
focused that much on grabbing the
product side of product engineering. Um,
which I think there's a ton of value in.
So, I think that side's really lacking
currently. So, we're doing work, but I
suspect other people will too on a
different type of harness that's a bit
broader. Um, and there'll probably be
different modes depending on the type of
task you're doing.
>> Yeah, I agree. So at the moment we've
sort of we've automated the engineer and
the CTO job kind of but we need to bring
in the CPO or the product manager
someone with a kind of product vision to
say like this seems out of scope or way
off or like at least come back and
clarify with you whether it it fits your
vision. How long ago was it that you
decided to make this change?
>> Um probably about a year and a half ago
I would say something like that.
>> And was was it like what was the mood
inside Post Hog like at the time? What
do you remember the meeting? Was this
like a we have to bet the whole company
or was it like we we'll place you know
one or two developers on this? How did
you think about it?
>> If I'm really honest, it didn't actually
come from inside Postto. I went to I
went on um I was on vacation for a
couple of weeks and started um I
actually had the longer longest break
I've had at Postto uh and I was reading
um and it just suddenly quite nerdly I
started thinking about the difference
between uh an MLM and a human brain. And
I created a list and I was like okay
this is the stuff and I realized there
were a lot of differences in a way that
made me feel that LMS could go much much
further and the reason for this whole
thought process was reading why some of
the uh co-founders of open AI joined in
the first place and the thought process
was super engineering um for several of
them it was basically humans have a
brain it's a physical object so we can
just build one um it's just a bunch of
engineering and obviously it's an
insanely difficult task but um that kind
of attitude is why they were successful
so thinking about uh in more detail.
Okay, what's the next next next level
detail? What's the gap between a brain
and an LM right now? And I just
concluded there's I think there's a long
way still to go. I think other things
are starting to constrain kind of the
economic value that comes from a model.
Like I think uh as the models are
getting better, I think a lot of them
are already way past where they need to
be to provide a lot of value and the
challenge is kind of gluing the model to
the use case which I think is also a
good place to look for startup ideas. So
a lot of our product thinking comes from
there too. Just kind of saying like hey
with like GLM 5.2 to recently for
example it's super adequate at doing
tons and tons of work internally um the
challenge is actually making it do the
work internally like like letting the LM
have tools and send emails and do
analytics or instrument your product to
collect data or whatever it might be so
anyway that this kind of happened um I
run the company with Tim um so there are
two of us we're both co-founders and uh
we considered ourselves co-CEO which
again if early stage I would super
recommend doing again um we started off
by I was the CEO and Tim was CTO because
he was more technical than me. I've got
like a mixed background like I've run a
sales team before. I've done some very
bad engineering whereas Tim is like
engineer through and through. But we
kind of realized after a while, hang on,
I'm doing a better I'm a little bit
better at pushing for things that are on
the product side. Tim's actually better
at running sales than me. Um and treats
it like a system much more. And so we've
kind of we've just swapped around our
jobs. Um and we've got as we got bigger,
we got to the point where I literally
just do stuff that I want to work on um
that I think I'm good at. and anything
else that doesn't fit those two things I
just won't work on. And so when it came
to this I was like well actually I think
I need to make post very very AI first.
I talked to Tim he agreed and then we
talked about how do we actually execute
this well and we decided if we both try
and do this at the same time we're going
to kind of get in each other's way.
We're going to seem misaligned whatever.
So basically Tim was like okay I'm just
going to completely look after
everything else like finance hiring
people like we're scaling up quite a lot
at this point um and hire we were like
more than doubling the size of the
company the same year. Um, and I just
hung out with engineers building AI
stuff. Um, so he kind of just like let
me just go all in on AI and making the
whole company go in that direction
instead and I didn't have to worry about
anything else. So I didn't do any one
ones or anything like that. I'm just
kind of randomly doing off sites or
meeting up with engineers to get them to
build things with me.
>> That sounds really fun.
>> It has been by definition. I want it to
be fun cuz like part of building a big
company is like I guess you've seen
stuff here too like much more than me.
Um but uh if it to build a big company
you need to like be you have lots of
growth for a long time and so for a long
time if it's not fun we'll just leave. I
100% agree with you and I like I took
the other route and then left because I
killed myself doing all of the
day-to-day things which were required
and you know I'm not sure I had someone
like Tim I could rely on to be like you
run the entire company I'll just go and
do this other stuff you know the fun
future vision stuff but the fact that
you've got that partnership allows you
to do that super super powerful
>> yeah and you can kind of swap around
like sometimes and you also find even
just the energy is very different like I
had been running sales at the start I'm
getting a little bit bored of this and
I'm getting much more interested in
product and Tim, my co-founder, was
feeling the other way around cuz we
often found that whatever you're not
doing, you start worrying about. You're
like, "Oh, I'm not in control of
products." And Tim was thinking, "I'm
not in control of sales. What are they
saying?" And so, we just said, "Hey, why
don't we just swap for a bit and see how
it goes?" And it was great. We both had
tons of energy. It's like a new job. Uh,
and we just both went much harder. It
was very successful swapping stuff
around. So, I would say like don't be a
lemming. I think people have a really
high propensity to do what society
expects of you, which is to follow a
career path that takes you, you know,
like you go get a good degree at
university, you become a banker, you
gradually meet make a VP and then you
retire and die. Um, you really don't
have to. So, you can like swap around,
you can run sales, you can do product,
you can do engineering, like whatever
you think is most important basically
like what is the bottleneck to the
company being more successful. Changing
tack a little bit. Um, you've argued
that founders should be much more
ambitious, especially founders in in
Europe, and we're both European. I'd
count myself as European still when I
left for another country. Do you have
examples of ideas that sound like too
big or too hard um but might actually be
more fundable, more recruitable, maybe
easy to take to market than like another
narrow SAS tool? Like how do you think
about how much ambition is too much
ambition?
>> Um, I I I'm curious how you would how
this would do in an OIC interview, but
from my perspective I think um I suspect
it would do quite well like better than
people would imagine. Um I think there
isn't a ceiling to where you can think
there is um generically what I have
learned as we've postto has got far more
ambitious over time. Um like at the
start we're kind of almost apologetic
like we're trying to find a little place
in the market hiding away from other
companies that were bigger than us.
We're very scared of competition for
example. Um and eventually we learned to
start embracing it and then we started
realizing actually we can build
something much better than everyone
we're competing with. Um the more
ambitious we have gotten like post went
from one product to wanting to build
like 20 to actually building like 20 of
them wanting to build hundreds now
saying actually these tools don't even m
we've built all these products they
don't even matter anymore like the like
an agent should be using all of them. Um
the whole thing should be proactive and
it just tells you when it it like uses
you as a human to unblock itself
basically. um the more ambitious we've
gotten, it's been far easier to um uh
hire really good people. It's because
really really strong people I think
generically will want to and there are
exceptions clearly, but they will I
think are more likely to want to work
for companies that are working on
something very inspiring. It's just
obvious. Um it's far easier to do go to
market for ideas I think that are very
ambitious too. Um if you're more
ambitious, you're more remarkable. As
the world gets busier, there's like more
and more software coming out. like it's
super easy to build something which
means that in go to market everything
gets saturated like trying to get
someone's attention um I think will get
harder and harder and harder for
startups because there are more of them
like there's more people building um if
you're building something that is more
remarkable people if something is
remarkable that you're building people
will remark upon it on the internet
they'll talk about you'll get word of
mouth growth if what you're building is
unremarkable like um a really narrow
point solution in SAS you may still that
you can definitely still be successful
but I think you have an easier time if
you're building something that is just
fundamentally more compelling and bigger
Um, and in terms of fundraising, it's
easier to fund raise for very large
ideas. It's probably more biodal. Like,
I think a bad investor is less likely to
work with you, but I think the really
strong ones are probably more likely to
work with you in that case. I basically
agree with you. I think but I I think
the nuance is that you have to kind of
be split as a founder. You have to have
this like the Sam Alman mode like what
is the most ambitious version of this
idea that I could possibly conceive of
and like say with a straight face and
hold that in your head and
simultaneously
ask and sort of direct your company to
like what is the next practical step I
can take today and this week to advance
towards that like insanely ambitious
goal. And so having that kind of
short-term practicality combined with
the long-term intense ambition kind of
hurts your brain sometimes. But I think
you kind of need both.
>> Yeah. you must you have to ship. It's
like the longest and short of it. Like
even all these ideas we're working on,
we're breaking them down into small
bits, getting things out the door. I
think almost conversely, I would argue
the more ambitious your idea is, the
more important it is to ship because
you're more likely to screw up because
it's more ambitious. So, um if you're
like, I'm going to disappear into the
wilderness for 3 years, then come back
with some perfect product. Um I don't
think you will. Um you'll get there by
building it with a bunch of people in
real life learning a bunch of stuff. So
we're really like when the we're more
focused than ever on shipping the more
innovative an idea is like the first
question internally is like okay when
will we launch this how can we launch it
sooner and that's what all the that's
what the sort of it's very busy at the
moment because everything's got very
innovative because which is creating so
much pressure to ship things to into our
users hands
>> yeah I think this is such an important
point and so European founders often
will ask something like how do these
Americans who have nothing claim to be
working on all this insane in stuff when
it's so like implausible or impro you
know like it's they can can't possibly
know the future are they all just liars
>> I think a few things that have really
struck me or observations along this as
we've grown um like in the early days
like before we did um YC we'd look up to
people doing YC as kind of superstars
and we had real really strong imposter
syndrome which I think you get you're
more likely to get kind of the more
European you probably are um when we got
into YC we're like actually like in a
really good way a lot of the stuff is
very underwhelming like people are super
super like everyone is much earlier than
we thought they would be. It's much more
chaotic than you would expect. Um but
from this is what great startup like
from this we saw companies absolutely
rocket and take off. Um but it was far
more underwhelming on average I would
say than we expected per person. But as
we keep growing we think the same thing
over and over again. um to the point
where now when we meet people who are um
you know running companies that are 100
billion or more in valuation or whatever
we're like well actually like I'm you
can sort of just see them as a we
realize they're all human beings
ultimately um underneath like they're
like they're you know we've literally
met billionaires who are our goal is go
into the meeting and just treat them
like they're one of our peers um and try
and see through a little bit some of the
veneer. So I think like the big these
big successful companies look because
they have all this marketing really
impressive and it looks like you can
never compete with them like I think
Anthropic is a company that's like that
at the moment like they look kind of
undefeable but the reality is it's run
by a bunch of humans who are not
necessarily any smarter than everyone
here. Um they're just at a different
stage and they've done a bunch of stuff
for a while. Um so the kind of imposter
syndrome is really crumbled. So I think
that's actually I was struggling with
most as someone who I'd never ever
worked for a sexy company before. I'd
never worked for like Google or Facebook
or anyone like that either. And like I
was very new and that's the thing YC
brought me really like I think my
perception was YC gives you this network
where I can just sell to all these
people to get some revenue and then fund
raise and then hopefully it all works
out but the reality for us was it just
normalized um people aiming really high
people setting a really high bar for us
and it sounds super fluffy and like a
nonsatisfactory answer to an engineer
but like honestly it made us like 100
times more confident than we were. I
think this is a more normal culture to
have in America than it is in Europe. Um
where in the US people I think because
it's not looked down upon that someone
will just declare they're going to um
solve cancer for example or something
like that. Whereas in San Francisco that
is an entirely normal and potentially
plausible thing to hear because you
can't get there without believing it at
the start. [snorts]
>> Yeah. Or like cure all disease ever.
>> Yeah. Like I have had founders who've
said that and we funded them and like
probably it won't work but if it did
work I that would be pretty impactful to
cure all of disease. Um and so I think
the Americans just kind of have this
like what if it all goes right? Like
what if every everything along the way
what if actually just worked? What would
be possible if it worked? And I think
there's a tendency in Europe to ask
yourself too often like what if it fails
or what if the like what are my friends
or family going to think of me? What if
it's not GDBR compliant in the early
days? Like, oh,
>> wa [laughter]
Jesus.
>> There's this like kind of weird cultural
deprogramming you have to do at YC when
we get European founders over.
>> I know it does sound a bit cultlike. I
think the um I would also say the other
thing the other thing I've sort of
realized is you're just default screwed
as a startup. So, it is all upside. You
you just can't win on downside. It's the
biggest thing I found dealing with
investors who are stronger. Like the
investors we want to work with are they
are focused on the what if it all works
out because they know that.99% of your
startup's upside hasn't been done yet.
There's just no point worrying about
downside or how it goes wrong because
you can't kind of a like a successful
like I used to think this about earning
money. Like if you're thinking about
starting your own company um or just
continuing in a regular job there's a
limit on kind of how much you can earn
in a regular job for example. But if you
like run a business whatever it can you
can make thousands and thousands of
times more money than someone else in
theory. there's only so much you can
save. Um, and I think it's like that
with upside versus downside risk when
you're making kind of product decisions,
for example.
>> Yeah. And I mean, as an investor, you
can only lose one one your money. But I
mean, some for Y cominator, we've
invested in 7,000 companies. And I would
guess 90% of our total returns come from
five companies. So, it just doesn't
matter if like six and 6,995
companies just all fail. doesn't matter
at all if five companies reach 100
billion.
>> Yeah. And I think it's realizing then
that's what investors are after. So when
you come to fundraising, you got to be
pitching like that. Not like, oh, we'll
save the money and be super careful. I
mean, you need to not die and there are
lots of other things to consider, but
that is the model that investors are
after.
>> Yeah, totally. Investing in a company
that gets to a 50 million or 100 million
outcome as an investor is an absolute
waste of time. Whereas investing in
something that has a 1% chance of being
a 10 billion or 100 billion company,
like absolutely sign me up. I'll take
that bet every single day. even if 99%
of the time it fails. Um that's how
investors make money. And I think
switching that mentality when you're
pitching to investors is is really
really important, right? Just ask
yourself what if it all goes right? What
could be possible? And then pitch that
vision. You've got kind of a cult like
developer brand like a kind of a weird
brand actually like hedgehogs. Uh the
you plastered on the back of buses uh
you deserve posth I think is the latest
one. uh your Twitter personality like
how intentional is all of that? Did it
kind of develop? Did it is it all a
joke? Is it effective?
>> It took a lot of it took work at the
start to it was intentional at the
start. So, we were going into a lot of
busy markets and again I think this is
like one of the things I've learned
about marketing is if you're going into
a busy market which I think can be a
really good I think it's an underrated
thing to do in from product perspective.
Your challenge in marketing is standing
out uh because it's so busy. Your
challenge in marketing is nothing else
really. You're not trying to create
demand for the product. You're not
trying to educate people that much about
what it does. you're just trying to get
across like, hey, this is a company that
um stands for something more
interesting. Like when we launched,
every other company had a blue website.
Like literally all of our competition at
one point. They use long words. They had
pricing pages that didn't have pricing
on them. And we're like, man, these are
super that's part of the reason we
started Postar. We're getting annoyed at
dealing with we wanted their products,
but as quite technical people, we're
getting annoyed trying to access them.
And we just wanted to be able to like
click sign up, put in our credit card,
and off we go. Maybe with some free
usage or whatever. And so um we got an
awful lot of traction in the early days
literally by doing stuff that wasn't
product related better. I would say that
stuff was more important to us than like
our product was super terrible compared
to all of our competition for a while a
long while. Um but people wanted us to
win on the internet. Um we targeted a
slightly different audience. Like we
went after engineers, not after um some
of the other roles internally that our
competitors would go after. Um and they
just kind of wled us on until we got
there. Um and now we're at the point
where we think our product is much
stronger. Um and still has a long way to
go. Um but yeah, the just the value of
like when you consider I think everyone
talks about product in lots of depth
like they really think who am I building
for? What should it do? How can I
differentiate myself blah blah blah blah
and then they just like copy paste their
go to market and instead we're like well
who is our go to market for let's think
about that like a product like we think
about our website. We consider our
website a product internally for example
like what are the use cases? Who are we
building our website for? What are the
different profiles of person showing up?
Um and once we did enough of this, we've
just now built the muscle internally
that um the marketing team kind of just
does whatever they want. But there is
sort of a common philosophy of um how it
kind of all works. So I'm not kind of
micromanaging our latest like blimp
campaign or something. Um that one I am
uh but on the whole most of the
marketing stuff is the marketing team
just are having a lot of fun. Um which
is leading to good results. I think I
would say I think it's important like
I'm having an awful lot of fun running
Postto. our team are as well and like we
interview looking for that fit and
hoping that that person will enjoy
working with us. Um like you're very
unlikely to get hired at Postto if you
show up wearing a suit to your interview
for example. So or if you really really
want to be a manager you really really
should work somewhere else. Um so we
look for people that we think are going
to genuinely entertain be quite
entertained by what we're working on and
it does help. It just comes across
naturally.
>> Yeah. I've noticed that about both you
and Tim. you both seem to like really
really enjoy your job and I don't think
it's the single most important thing but
I think after getting product market fit
probably then it actually is one of the
most important things stopping the
founders burning out over the next five
or 10 or 15 years. uh like once we met
Patrick from stripe and um we asked him
a bit about this and he said yeah my
mentality is I want to be running this
for 40 more years so my role needs to
also reflect that and it's not purely a
external question of um what do I do for
customers and stuff he's also very he
kind of knows that by virtue of being
there and having a good time he will
produce better output for customers too
um but I do agree product market is more
important and it was very grindy at the
start for us it's got more fun as we've
got bigger
>> last question on pivots so you guys
pivoted was it five times before you
landed on Post Hog?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Like what what did that feel like? And
it's the hardest question I get as a as
a YC partner is should I persevere with
this idea or should I pivot to a new
idea and like how did you think through
it those first four or five pivots and
then how did Post Hog feel different to
all of those
>> in order to do a really good job of
learning like how are people and by
learning I mean kind of we we need to
learn something each week like uh do
people value this concept? do people
value this particular product? Can we
get it in front of people or whatever it
might be? We'd set goals that were based
like that. It wasn't kind of like hit
20K MR or something at the start. It was
very much like can we get one single
user to use this thing in production for
example. Um and we would just iterate
really fast towards that. So I think
you're like luck you have with hitting
product market fit is kind of a function
of how many shots you're taking and the
quality of each shot. I think there's
diminishing return to the quality of a
shot you can take. like you could spend
10 years trying to build the first idea
we ever worked on and pro I would say
probably still fail but we tried for
like 4 weeks or 6 weeks or something
couldn't get anything any kind of
traction for it and so we just moved on
because we felt no matter how hard we
try we just don't think this idea feels
very unnatural that it's landing and so
basically what happened is I would go
out validating the idea with users so I
would be talking to them and just
spending my whole day trying to get in
front of users we would go like we
wouldn't phone anything in like we would
always go meet people in person even if
there was a bunch of travel did not care
how stupid. It looked like we would like
one of our first the first paying
customer we got on our which was on our
fourth idea or something. We um caught
like two or three trains and a bus to go
meet them and it was like a $300 a month
contract or whatever and like we
probably spent about that on getting
there. Um but from that we learned later
on when we tried to charge them more
money for what we thought it was what we
wanted to be charging, we couldn't get
the price up at all. And we started
feeling like this sort of just shows us
that they don't value it. Like we've
tried really hard to get this over the
line. Whereas if we'd phoned this in,
they could have been like on their phone
or ignoring us or whatever. So we're
very we really did commit to each idea
kind of blindly um and just hammered it
out until uh we either realized that we
just cannot get like people to talk to
us, we can't get people to use it in
production, we can't get people to pay
for it. There various hurdles. And once
we kept hitting the same hurdle over and
over again, we'd either run out of ideas
for how to solve it or just decide this
just doesn't feel right to us. So, um,
yeah, we were pretty decisive. We're
probably too much on the side of
abandoning things early. But I think
that's because we were quite bad product
people at first. We had to do a few
products to try and build some product
knowledge ourselves, I think. Maybe.
>> Amazing. Um, well, it all worked out in
the end. I I have a million more
questions I I could ask, but sadly we
are out of time. I'd love to give a huge
round of applause to James from Thank
you.
>> [applause]