Title: How Zepto Became India’s Fastest Growing Startup
Video ID: aYK0H85E_oU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYK0H85E_oU
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-04-18T14:00:03Z
Duration: PT38M24S
Views: 229199
Likes: 5400
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1176

Description:
Imagine ordering groceries and having them show up at your doorstep in just 10 minutes. That’s the promise of Zepto, the fastest growing e-commerce company in India. In this episode of How To Build The Future, Garry sits down with Aadit Palicha, the co-founder and CEO of Zepto, to discuss how they got started in a Whatsapp group, what it’s like going up against incumbents like Amazon and Zomato and how the future of e-commerce is changing in the age of intelligence. 

Apply to Y Combinator: http

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I genuinely believe we've got a once in
a generation opportunity to build a
world-class internet company out of
India. We just had to like push
ourselves through some really tricky
moments. We went from close to zero in
scale to like 200 million in like 6
months, right? And I would not recommend
that to anybody. Really do it for the
love of building. That should be the end
goal. The end goal should not be I build
so I can make XYZ. I'm building so that
I have the opportunity to wake up in the
morning and build again.
Welcome back to another episode of How
to Build the Future. Today I'm thrilled
to be joined by Audit Polycha, the
co-founder and CEO of Zeppto, which
delivers groceries to your door in just
10 minutes. There are up to$ 1.5 million
orders a day across 50 cities throughout
India with over $3 billion in GMV and
growing 300% a year. and they're a
unicorn at a $5 billion valuation.
Audit, it's great to see you here today.
Thanks so much for having me, Gary. I
appreciate it. So, when you were getting
started, there are some pretty big
players already in the space. Swiggy,
Zato, even Amazon was at it. How did you
approach that? When we started and we
were very small, there was no sort of
grand strategy or ambition, right?
Again, most of it was bottoms up from
users in the very early days. But you
know looking at it now I think you the
reason why we were able to make a dent
and and and create this scale is because
a lot of the people that were in the
market in the early days of grocery
delivery in India were trying to build
it supply chain backward instead of user
backward or customer backward right and
so they would build out models that were
you know 2-hour delivery 4-hour delivery
which made sense on PayPal and like you
know logistically seem more feasible
economically seem more viable instead of
building it retention and consumer
first. The insight was yes, let's do
10-minute delivery, but also let's build
out the full stack of commerce where
we're able to run the logistics, we're
able to have a much better sense and
selection on quality control. And sort
of that audacious thinking put us in a
position where not only were we able to
build a better product for users, but
over time and now sort of what's playing
out is that if you build a better
product for users, you also end up with
a better P&L and a better economics,
right? So if users love the platform,
your CAC is lower, the throughput you're
able to get into your supply chain is
much higher, your costs come down, and
now we're basically seeing like the
economics play out pretty beautifully.
Uh better than like the 2our and 4hour
models because of how sticky the users
are. So I think basically that's the
dent that we had. We were like just
thinking first principles, user customer
backward versus a lot of the big guys,
the big behemoths that had like
sophisticated P&Ls and finance teams
were thinking supply chain backward. I
guess if you win the consumer, you can
win everything. Yeah. Yeah. And the the
big companies sometimes lose sight of
that. You're 22 now, but when you were
17, you had reached out to Jared
Freriedman, one of our partners here at
YC. Tell us about that story. So, we
were just actually supposed to come here
in California and study. Um, but the
pandemic hit. So, the freshman year that
we were supposed to have at Stanford
basically got postponed by a year. We
decided to take a gap year. and my
co-founder and I was sitting in Mumbai.
Really had nothing to do. Uh no sort of
fancy internships at Goldman or anything
like that lined up. So we just decided
to to hack around work on a project and
it just started off as like a WhatsApp
group where we were delivering groceries
for our neighbors cuz it was a nightmare
to get groceries in the first wave of
the pandemic. Uh and that slowly kept
iterating as just like a fun project and
we were talking to people on on hacker
news about it and you know just sharing
updates and I think one day we uh saw a
posting get 10 minutes with a YC partner
uh and we said wow this is you know YC
was sort of this you know for two kids
on the other side of the world was just
sort of this mystical land right where
we were like you know this hobby of
building cool stuff people actually do
it for a living somewhere in the world
right uh and so we said wow we'd love to
talk to a YC partner and and Jad was
kind enough to
uh agree after we I think we we like
flooded the comment section saying that
you know give us time give us time and
and and Jared sort of gave us the
benefit and yeah we had a like I think
it was an 8 minute call uh we gave him a
quick sense he's like hey there's a
company in in the US called Instacart
that does something similar to what you
guys are doing maybe this could be a
business have you ever thought of that
we said you know not really uh but then
he said no this could actually be
something meaningful have you ever
thought of applying to YC and that's for
the first time when we thought wow is
this like I thought this was just like a
project but actually could be something
meaningful. What was the first demo
like? How did that sort of come
together? Yeah, I mean the first like
real interaction with the customer was
basically a WhatsApp group. There was
like a an old lady down the road from
where he was staying in Mumbai that was
really struggling to get groceries and
she stayed alone and so we were just
delivering groceries for her and you
know she would basically say hey uh
you're going to this grocery store down
the road why don't why don't you also go
to the butcher store. that was like the
first unit interaction with the customer
and we should be able to do multiple
stores and then she started adding her
friends to the WhatsApp group and so
more and more people kept ordering. Um
but that was the early days and then I
think the first real product that we
built was probably I would say 2 months
after the first delivery or like a month
and a half 2 months after the first
delivery uh and at the time was called
Kirana card right uh and we it was a
pickup and drop service similar to what
Instacart is in the US that you know
prototype probably would have taken like
72 hours to build I'll attribute most of
the heavy lifting to to my co-founder KB
right uh but we built it we asked the
users to move to that app and that's how
it started. There was no like launch
moment uh uh per se. It was just like
getting feedback from a customer on a
doorstep and just cycling around and
that just like slowly iterated into
something more and more meaningful day
by day. Uh but there was no like one
like boom you're now you're a startup
and that never actually sort of happened
until we gone to YC. I guess the initial
model for it was Karan Cart and then
what's a kirana for for some of the
folks watching? Sure. No, Kirana
basically is the Hindi word for mom and
pop shop, right? Uh so it's like these
small mom and pop stores that exist in
India. Obviously in the US you've got
more Walmarts and Costos and Kroger's.
Uh but in India it's primarily these
small mom and pop shops that that
dominate grocery. So that's what a
kirana is. So Kirana cart was like
corner shop delivery in a way. That's
what it means. So the other thing that
was uh very important was sort of uh
extreme speed. So it wasn't you know an
hour or half an hour, it was 10 minutes.
How did that come about? So I think when
you when you speak to most people uh in
the US they think of 10 minutes as like
a convenience uh value proposition but
actually in India it's very different
right so you know if you look at India
the overwheling majority of consumption
actually happens within 4 km from your
house which is very different from the
US right like the frequency of purchase
in India is four times more for grocery
than it is in in the US and so people
actually just buying these small tickets
multiple times a week uh which is why
most retail in India is hyper proximity
right so unlike like let's say the big
box Walmart Costco models that work in
like suburban sprawls. People are used
to door the milk delivery guy coming to
their doorstep or the fruits and
vegetables guy showing up outside their
house every morning or the local mom and
pop being 200 m down the road. And so
that's the dominant format of
consumption and retail. You know 10
minutes was never really like a you know
let's do 10-minute delivery for the sake
of 10-minute delivery. It was more you
know customers would basically keep
telling us on on their doorstep and we
did a lot of the deliveries for the
first few months ourselves. They
basically keep telling us that hey uh
this is great you know it's co but I
would much rather just go to my fruits
and vegetables guy uh in the morning he
comes you know pretty much there why do
I wait for 2 3 hours for you guys it's
not a convenience thing it's like I'm
just used to buying so much more
frequently so much more easier um and so
that's when we we sort of gradually
moved shorter and shorter delivery times
to have the ability to create that
doorstep like experience now obviously
at scale the the insight is that It's
not just important because people are
used to it, but it's just it's a
necessity because you've got a lot
smaller household sizes in India. You've
got a lower penetration of
four-wheelers. You've got much more
perishables that people buy. People have
got lower disposable cash. So, they
don't actually have the luxury of buying
in bulk. And so, when you fit all of
those consumer insights in and mainly
just again talking to people on the
ground, you start realizing that, hey,
this 10-minute thing is actually
critical to do the way the the style of
purchase that people like. versus like a
nice little convenience value prop. So,
so that's how it came out. But I think
uh it was more just uh just talking to
people and like constantly saying,
"Okay, we need to reduce the delivery
time by 30 minutes by 30 minutes by 30
minutes until eventually we were like,
let's just be at their doorstep." One of
the things at YC we often talk about is
do things that don't scale. Was this one
of those things where you know you had
to go and do those uh initial deliveries
at 10 minutes and realized there's
actually a palpable difference in that
experience from the customer? 100%. So I
think in the middle of the batch uh we
started getting a lot more push back
from
users where basically we're just not
seeing the retention right in the early
days when you're delivering like in an
hour and so people would use the app the
next week 3 4% of people use it again
and so that's when we started talking to
people and lots of things came out like
selection pricing quality but this was
one of the big ones and so we said okay
um we have to be at their doorstep. So
what uh KB and I did is we went to one
of the the stores on the platform and we
basically commandeered the store
ourselves right uh and we ran it for a
short period of time but we did a pilot
where we said if we can if we are able
to control the customer experience end
to end including the delivery time
what's the reaction that we get and so
we bas I was basically like the the
shopkeeper for a couple of days KV was
delivering and we could basically see
that you know at the customer's doorstep
there was a lot more delight and that
was obviously the subjective indicator.
And then as we sort of got to a couple
hundred orders with that model, we could
see that hey, people are actually
repeating at like obviously the data was
not as sophisticated, but we could see
the very early signs of hey, this these
like 10 people that ordered last week, a
good chunk of them are still ordering
this week. Maybe that's a good thing.
You did this unscalable thing. You did
it yourself. You're not running around
and hiring other people to do it. You're
directly experiencing it. But as a
result, you came to you sort of ran it
to ground and you had this like very
intuitive idea about what the product
needed to become. For sure. And I think
that it started with like the subjective
intuition just like what are human
beings telling you uh verbally you know
over time it became more objective right
which is like what's the retention of
each cohort we're seeing uh are we
seeing that repeatability and I think
the that rigor of testing whether we had
PMF came from the the the the grinding
we had to do at YC. YC was probably that
most intense period where we learned all
of these frameworks very quickly and so
Jared would push us saying okay you know
you're getting good verbal feedback but
are people really repeating and if
that's the case then you're building
something real versus just like a
hypothesis. You guys also uh you know
pioneered this dark store concept that
now you know a lot of people are using.
Was that also uh a necessary consequence
of becoming a 10-minute provider? like
you needed control over what that
experience would be like. Absolutely
right. Like the being able to control uh
fulfillment logistics was critical for
us to be able to get that like that
delivery time and SLA for the customer.
But more importantly than that, you
know, although people think of us as
like a temporary delivery provider here,
if you go into the ground in India,
we're sort of looked at more as like a
like a a hyper local Amazon. not just
like good serviceability to the customer
but also great selection, great quality,
great pricing across and you know today
we're doing not like you know 700 800
products we're doing now almost 45,000
to 50,000 products that you can order in
Zapto everything from like you know
oranges and apples all the way to
earphones and hoodies we're basically
building out an internet supermarket
chain right although people sort of
anchor on the 10-minute piece the owning
the full stack logistics is also pretty
consequential for all the other axioms
of customer experience Right? So it's
speed for sure and then there's also
quality, there's also selection and
there's also price. And so all four of
those pillars of customer experience
improve dramatically at least in our
experience when you're able to just like
control the entire stack. So I think as
a result of owning it, we're able to do,
you know, 50,000 products. We're able to
control the entire supply chain on the
back end and get better quality of
produce for customers. Now at scale,
we're able to cut all the inefficiencies
in the back end and give them better
prices, right? And so all of that is at
the end of the day helpful to the
customer. So the customer thinks of us,
you know, 10-minute delivery is what got
our foot in the door. But now they're
basically thinking of us as their their
go-to like supermarket chain in India or
their go-to one-stop shop. One of the
blessings we had pretty early on is that
like and you know you remember this as
well, right? Very early in the company's
life cycle. We got hit by March 2022
where capital markets basically fell off
a cliff and we couldn't raise capital
and we had two competitors that had
seven times the cash on balance sheet
than we had. Right? And so that was like
a big forcing function, right? Like
execute or die was the philosophy in
2022 2023. We had to just create as much
efficiency, create as much operating
leverage as we could very quickly, maybe
faster than a lot of other consumer
e-commerce companies have globally very
much early in our life cycle because it
was existential, right? And in
retrospect, that was the best thing that
could have ever happened to us because
when we are now well capitalized, we're
able to not only allocate that capital
better, but we're able to do it more
efficiently, get more growth for a lot
less investment, right? And so
essentially what happened is that uh we
got to this point in March, April 2024,
uh where we had gone from zero in August
of 2021 to 2 and a half years later, we
had hit about a billion in GMV. uh and
the business was actually pretty close
back then to EBIT and operating cash
flow break even and once we were in that
point we were able to show hey 70% of
our markets are profitable the most
mature markets are touching 4 to 5% ebit
um and they're turning profitable faster
and faster and we're still able to grow
but why don't we accelerate right like
if if the economics are working then we
should actually be accelerating into the
business instead of you know trying to
cash our chips in at just a billion of
GMV we've got an opportunity to build
you know the largest you grocery player
in India which it's is a $700 billion
market right and so if I'm in that
position we can easily build 20 25 30
billion of of of topline we should be
accelerating today we should be doubling
down and that's what's basically
happening as we speak what are some of
the bumps that you hit in the road and
like you know even as a 22-year-old
founder how did you think about I mean
holding teams to account like these are
sort of the more difficult things
especially uh in 50 different cities
like were there cities where the numbers
just didn't work out and you had to find
a new leader or you know did you have to
react to different like specific things
in different cities that were
surprising? I would say some of the
biggest roadblocks have been people in
talent related like we like the the the
most fundamental input for our company
is is execution excellence and like the
most important input to execution
excellence is is high quality talent and
so the biggest mistakes I've made as a
consequence of that are the the wrong
hires in some cases or the wrong uh
people management. So in retrospect the
setbacks have been oh you know we could
have done you know let's say finance
better or marketing better or you know
category management better or ops better
if we had had the right person and and
if you those mistakes are very costly
especially in that 2022 2023 period
where it was existential for us and so
there were situations where we had you
know not so much cash you know we almost
effectively could have died in that
Silicon Valley bank thing if you
remember that right we a lot of our cash
in in that in that period those mistakes
some of those mistakes could have been
very costly and so so yeah like I think
at a high level um just getting like the
the right folks on board we've made some
mistakes initially and now I think we've
learned from them and that that helped
us yeah let's go a little deeper into
some of the um existential moments for
Zeppto what are some other moments that
uh you know gave you sort of the deepest
lessons into building this company and
you know coming up as a CEO in the very
early days I think you know we had uh
plenty of existential crises that the YC
partners helped us through right there
was like like before we got into this
whole first party thing we were
realizing when we did like an
intellectually honest assessment of the
business in the early days that hey
there's no retention here and like in
this sort of pick up and drop off
service we're not able to do it well and
so we thought we were dead and and like
I there was a point in the earliest days
where we just said I mean what are we
going to do we've tried everything we've
killed ourselves you know we're working
this was before the 10-minute yeah this
is before the yeah before the first
party stack and
This is before we started commentarying
stores, right? And we said, "Hey, this
model is just not working out." You
know, we thought it was going to be
perfect. We'll just do this model. It's
going to grow. Everything's going to be
great. Got a reality check. After like a
few months of like hitting the wall, we
said, "Is there is there even a model
that works?" And like pretty much
everyone was telling us that, "Hey,
grocery delivery in the world is is, you
know, has never worked really that well
other than a few exceptions. India,
there was lots of companies that came
before us. There was a graveyard." And
so all the feedbacks we were getting
from from investors and from people that
seem to know much more than we did is
that you guys are essentially in a dead
space and we could see it in the data.
So in the very early days there was that
like super despair period where we would
have I mean very close to giving up
right that would have been probably the
highest likelihood chance of death that
this company had and then obviously as
we became like a a larger and larger
company there were all sorts of crises
right I mean I think we had a if you've
been in positions where you know we're
about to raise capital and then a crisis
happens whether it's you know March 2022
when uh Ukraine war happened in that
period or let's say we're about to it's
funny actually most of our fundraisers
have coincided with some sort of crazy
crisis that's happening right and it's
it has actually made it harder right
like I think right before we raised that
round in 2023 which was like like a
fundra from hell almost right because it
was like the only unicorn round in India
for that year immediately prior to that
the Silicon Valley bank thing happened
and so uh to raise that round took like
8 months 7 months and within that I mean
like there were lots of places that we
could have died in that were real like
there was there was a period where we
had to build a lot of financial controls
right like um we had to go through like
EY audits that you know if we didn't
make it through them as tightly as we
would have wanted we would have you know
not gotten capital right and when you've
got competitors with over a billion
dollars of cash in bank it's existential
right and we didn't want to sell and so
we we just had to like push ourselves
through some like really tricky moments
there but there are probably plenty more
still still to happen right I'm sure I
think uh the really cool part of your
story is that um you know you didn't
look at sort of how other people were
doing it and uh sort of accepted that as
you know sort of ground truth like
there's a x maxim now that is you know
you can just do things right so I I see
a lot of uh you can just do things
energy in what you're talking about here
I mean so a little bit of na being naive
and young that helped actually like you
know it's like they say right like if
you if you knew how hard it was when you
started you wouldn't have done it right
and That's the Paul Graham Schleep
blindness
essay in a in a nutshell. So you you've
personified it. I really like how you
thought about retention. Did it feel
like you were just asking questions
about that and you know out of asking
questions why is retention you not where
it could be? Like that sort of teased
out, well we could try this, we could
try that. Like were there a few other
things you tried other than the
10-minute thing? Yeah, we did. We tried
like we tried to build like a SAS model
for mom and pop shops. We try to build
like a a B2B logistics play, right? Like
is there like a better model maybe like
what if we just do the do the only the
delivery part or what if we only do the
software part, right? And we just
realized that like you know grocery in
India is, you know, can be much better
than it is in general as like a uh as a
market and like we realize that
everything is so broken, right? Like
whether you go into the back end, you go
into the the the storefront, you go to
the the delivery and the last mile. If
you want to build something that really
solves the problem end to end for the
customer which is across like speed,
quality, assortment and price, then you
just need to suck it up and own the the
whole thing. The push basically came
from uh a lot of just like radical
candle, right? And I think that you
don't really find a lot of that you know
candidly in in India so far which is why
obviously YC was as valuable as it was
because you know people were just like
you know brutally honest with us that
hey man you want to make it you want to
build let's say Instacart you want to
build Door Dash you want to build like a
nice consumer tech company. Uh this is
what the early days of those guys would
have looked like. Obviously, they went
through their own struggles, but you're
not not you're not at a point where you
can credibly claim product market fit.
And then having that like really
brutally honest uh feedback loop really
helped us. And then we sort of pushed
ourselves to say, okay, if we're being
super honest with ourselves, are we
building an exceptional product? Right?
Sure, maybe we're getting a little bit
of a pop in the early days because it's
a co people are locked down. They have
to use the app, but can I really say
that build something that somebody
actually wants long term? Uh, and until
we had conviction that we were there, we
didn't go all in. It was just like a
great feedback loop and like a lot of
like a lot of tolerance for iteration
and pain basically. Yeah. What uh talk
to me about that moment where you did
feel like you got product market fit and
that's when you know maybe you were in
only in one location and then you said
okay time for you did you do one
additional location or did you say all
right like five locations like what was
that like? It was actually the first
location the first dark show we launched
is in a neighborhood in Mumbai called
Bandra and pretty quickly that
neighborhood became bigger for us than
the rest of the entire city that we were
operating in. And it just sort of
ballooned and I I remember going there
because it was an experiment, right? And
and it was like effectively it was like
a cardboard uh cardboard cutout almost
of like what a dark store looks like
today cuz now dark store is like you've
got proper racking and and you know
chillers and freezers and everything all
set up properly. But over there it was
just like a bunch of like stuff on the
ground basically and we were delivering
from there. But the experience was so
well managed because we were able to you
know curate a really good selection
right uh and worked with a couple of
people to be able to do that. we were
able to get the deliveries consistently
and so it just started picking up very
rapidly and long long story short I mean
I did a couple of deliveries and I was
like wow people really have a spark in
their eye when they're getting like a
delivery here versus like what I'm used
to which is oh this is bad this is bad
deliveries delayed items are not right
so yeah I think that was like the aha
moment and that is also when we we were
we got lucky to just keep getting like
the right mentor at the right point in
the journey and so that's when you our
series A investors which was Nexus in
India basically came in and said hey you
know this is real product market fit
probably right and we said I mean are
you sure like we were very cynical right
that's when I think at the right time at
the right place we met the people that
gave us the conviction that you know you
can actually try this again in the
second store try this again in the third
store and that's when it started just
really picking up we went from basically
like close to zero in scale to like 200
million in in run scale in like 6 months
right and and like I would not recommend
that to anybody ever again. It caught
fire. Like people really wanted it.
Pulling the product out of you like when
are you coming to my neighborhood? Yeah.
And even like just even I mean obviously
it's 2021 so it's crazy, right? But even
from a capital perspective, we went from
like effectively the 125k from YC to
like a $9 million round to a $50 million
round to $100 million round in like 4
months. And and that that was obviously
crazy back then. in in hindsight was
probably the right thing cuz that was
like sort of the inflection point to
just go all in and on and then in 2022
we stabilized and said okay let's start
building a business out of this I guess
given that like do you consider Zeppto a
success? No, absolutely not. Like I mean
not even uh not even close to it. I
think we've got couple of decades before
we can realistically say that we've won.
I genuinely believe we've got a once in
a generation opportunity to build like a
a worldass internet company out of
India. And you know sitting in in places
like this you you you get really humbled
because you realize that wow like look
at the kinds of quality of companies
that have been built in in the US and in
other parts of the world and I don't
think we're there yet and until we can
credibly come in and say that hey uh
we're able to hold our own to some of
the best uh globally like a like an
Amazon or or a Door Dash or a Micardo
Libre or all these other companies then
I don't think we've won. I also think
that the ambition is less about like oh
this valuation this that like it's now
come to a point where you just really
want to build something exceptional that
can be like a benchmark for for the rest
of the ecosystem. So I think it's going
to take 20 30 years to get there. Uh we
are very excited to do that for the next
20 30 years minimum and then much more
and we just have to execute like crazy
to make that happen. So that's what
that's what that's what we're trying to
do. Yeah. People are always uh
overestimating what they can do in one
year and way underestimating what can
happen in 10 or 20. Yeah, 100% 100%. So
uh you just you once tweeted uh nothing
against work life balance. In fact, I
recommend it to all our competitors.
Yeah. Uh you stupid idea. I think about
that often. I mean I think it is
possible to have balance but you know
you can also do you can run your work
like a really good marathon. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh for sure. You know, I think the the
for the people that like work at at a
company like Zeppto, I'd say that, you
know, join here if you're really looking
to do the best work of your life, right?
And like this is the place that is going
to get that out of you, right? Um
because it is a very execution focused
culture. Everyone is really deep into
the game. When you're just like in these
super execution focused cultures, then
you and you're really like accountable
for real problem statements every day,
you can actually just become like the
best version of yourself. And I think
the it's not for everybody, right? that
sort of mindset and thought process. But
it is for like the super ambitious, the
super capable that really want to to get
the best out of themselves and and it's
not forever, right? You're not going to
have to do this like work so hard for
many many decades. But like you
definitely need like I think I believe
portions in your life where you take
yourself to the maximum, right? And and
really achieve a lot. Uh and I think
Zeppto is sort of that place. It doesn't
feel like work, at least for me. And I
and I know that that's not a realistic
expectation for you know today we've got
like 3,000 plus corporate employees
right uh and mainly ops folks but like
with 3,000 people I know it's not
realistic for me to tell everyone that
hey you know love what you do work 7
days a week it's not realistic right but
at least for K and I I mean just it
feels like the journey of a lifetime
right and like there's nothing more
exciting than this uh to be to be
spending time on so uh that's that's I
guess the thought process but what I
what I will say though is if you don't
really have like a a mission that
excites people, right? Then you can't
push them to that to that level to
really give them their all. And I think
that like SpaceX is a good example of a
company that is just able to like get
the maximum amount of people because
it's such an inspiring mission. Now,
obviously, we're not sending rockets to
to to space. We're delivering groceries,
but I think that the the mission that at
least I like to try to bring out is that
guys, let's build like a truly great
internet company in India and let's like
kick off the internet revolution in
India that should have been much bigger
than it is today. I mean I think we can
I think we can create 10 connects more
value for the country than we have so
far. I think I mean if you look at even
like places like China right the the
dynamism came from the internet
companies and then that spread
everywhere right? Uh so maybe we can
play a small part in that that would be
great. What are some of the unique uh
advantages and challenges you've
experienced building a startup you know
specifically in in India. So I think the
advantage is that the talent is
incredible right and I initially didn't
um realize this deeply but you know we
we interviewed like American engineers
and obviously they're exceptional but we
said hey the guys that we have are as
good right uh and I think a lot of
people underestimate that that's why you
know a lot of great internet startups
set up offices in Bangalore right and
and hire people there and so the big
advantage is you just have such an
incredible talent base and really
although it's very competitive it's
still a lot less competitive to get such
highquality talent than it would be
sitting in San Francisco I'm sure uh I
think some of the hurdles are as an
ecosystem I think we're like very much
like post 2001 right now because we had
like a big reality check in 2223 and
there's still a lot of fear and and lack
of ambition in general and I'm sure you
you know you you've seen some of that
like in the post 01 kind of period right
I'm sure uh where people were less
ambitious right than they could have
been so we're sort of coming out of that
and saying you know guys why are we you
know if we execute well we should go we
should swing for the big leagues and so
I think the the challenge is like
whether it's hiring a senior senior
executive whether it's you know bringing
on board a new board member I feel
sometimes and so does Kevin like a
little bit in the minority camp where
we're saying it's very easy to be at
like 3 4 billion of GMBB and just take
it uh take it easy right and just get to
break even and then build a nice little
company go public you you'll do well
right but wouldn't it be much better to
go for 5x that 6x that and if the
opportunity is there why not go for And
so I think in in the US that mindset is
sort of taken for granted. Everybody has
that here. Yeah. Right. It's and it's
such a special place because of that.
Right. But in a place like India it's
still germinating. I mean I think you're
uh one of the leading importers of the
philosophy itself. Yeah. Hopefully we've
got the talent. Uh we just need to get
that mindset the dynamism basically
right. So what else do you have on the
plate and sort of in your vision for
Zeppto over the next 10 20 years? I
think from our perspective there's lot
of areas to innovate in like uh Indian
consumer internet and we want to I mean
we don't want to get distracted where we
just you know try multiple verticals
like we really want to just go deep into
the compounding fly view that we have of
product market fit and say how do we
just keep improving our product market
fit I believe that PMF is like it's a
it's a it's not static it's dynamic
right you can keep improving it over
time if you keep uh innovating and so
there are like a few exciting
innovations we're working on so for
example there's uh Zeppto Cafe which is
basically
first party food delivery that we've now
started to build into our dark stores
where in like a 3 and a half th000t
facility we'll have 250T that's
allocated for coffee tea snacks like if
you've been to 7-Eleven in Japan for
example or even in the US you have all
that uh amazing in Japan not so good
here yeah yeah yeah exactly right and so
that it came from the same inspiration
right can we build that out there uh and
that's doing phenomenally well so we've
scaled that effectively starting last
year and we've gone from zero to over
100,000 orders per day. And that's the
beauty of all these consumer internet
businesses, right? When you have like 15
20 million people opening your app every
week and then you add like a new uh
little use case for them, you can just
funnel hundreds of thousands of people
just by moving pixels around. That's
like this the super exciting thing about
this business. That's why I love it so
much. Sounds like it's the true
everything store, but it's not only just
the everything store that uh will come
to you tomorrow or maybe later next
week. It's literally in 10 minutes.
Yeah. It's like the you know hyper local
everything store for hyper localal India
right like that's the that's the idea
but there's a lot of other cool stuff I
mean even if you look at our advertising
business right like uh similar to like
the other really successful e-commerce
companies we've gone from like a 40
million AR R in ad revenue last year to
this year we've just crossed 200 million
AR right uh and that's just I mean it's
obviously phenomenal business and like
we're just innovating there in a
exciting fashion we built out like our
search stack in house the entire relev
relevance engine bidding attribution
campaign management automated keyword
suggestions I think we've built out a
really high quality performance ad stack
out of India uh for one of the first
players to have actually been able to do
that obviously Flipkart and a few other
folks have done it but we built it
really quickly and it's giving us a lot
of value and that business is also
scaling so ads is another big focus cafe
is another big focus and there's all
sorts of other stuff and we're you know
we're starting to get into you know
electronics is a category general
merchandise and apparel cosmetics So
we're just getting more and more into uh
as many use cases as we can find and and
all of it is user backward right and so
I basically spend time with the team
looking at hey what are people searching
for that we're not able to give them and
then let's start adding those use cases
so when people started searching for
coffee we said let's put in Zeppto Cafe
when people started searching for uh
lipstick we said let's start adding
cosmetics and so that's the fly wheel is
spinning as a result of that where we're
getting better retention and we're
getting a better P&LN state as a result
of that and there's a lot more to to to
push on that. very early but I think we
could you know maybe we'll be talking
hopefully if we execute well big it's a
big if but if we execute well a few
years from now we'll be talking about a
new form of e-commerce that we've sort
of invented out of India and I think you
know the Chinese guys were able to to
invent new forms of e-commerce too right
so why can't we you know going through
your description of how Zeppto works in
India uh it actually sounds way more
awesome than what Amazon is doing you
know Amazon tried to do some of these
you know faster delivery type things
they scaled them back like we sort of
don't know if we'll ever actually even
see them. If anything, uh it's you know
heartening and pretty exciting for the
Indian ecosystem and that uh there is
this very powerful energy where you can
just do things and it's alive and well.
It's happening in the other side of the
world too. Yeah. So uh we're in this age
of intelligence as Sam Alman calls it
and I'm a deep believer in that%. Um
what are you seeing at Zeppto? So the
way that I look at it is you know we're
like a very nent internet native company
and and we I was actually talking to
someone senior at Microsoft yesterday
and he gave us gave me a really good
framework which is on the we're
basically the application side of of the
AI acceleration right and if I have to
figure out what applications I need to
prioritize because in the end all the
applications are going to be you know
fully fleshed out either through agents
or something else that I don't know
right but my job right now as CEO is to
say Okay, what are the applications that
I need to expedite that I need today
that are core to my business? And what
are the applications that will probably
come out on their own and and are
non-core to my business, but I'll use
them, but are not core to my business.
So, for example, let's say non-core
would be accounting, right? Can I make
my accounting 10 times more efficient,
10 times more accurate? Eventually, 100%
there'll be an agent that does that for
me. Can I make my uh my legal contract
work that I do at scale? Can I make
that, you know, much more efficient?
Absolutely, I can. Right? and we'll we
have a uh a lot of that stuff that we
have to do in India, right? But those
are not really core and someone is going
to solve that for me later and I'll I'll
pick up an agent or whatever is you know
much more than I do, right? Uh a year
from now or 9 months from now and I'll
solve that problem. But today what I'm
focused on on the application side is
what are the things that are super core
that I need today and I will build some
of that cap I'll build some of the
capability in house to be able to apply
that as soon as possible to my business
as an internet native company. And so
for example, let's say the ads business
that I was talking about, right? So
automated keyword suggestion for example
or bidding and attribution uh we were
able to get much better you know return
on ad spend for our clients uh on the ad
side like Uni Liver and Proctor and
Gamble and Coca-Cola. We were able to do
that because we started training on
Llama uh to try to build out a better I
mean to basically build out the
relevance engine in house and that gave
us much better results and we were able
to search the ads business as a result
of that. that had a big impact on bottom
line or for example the easiest
application that everyone knows is
customer support and now that's
obviously playing out but we said we
need this customer support stack much
quicker so we've built out like a a
crack team that's again training on some
of the foundational models looking at
all our data let's say like rotten
bananas for example because we do one
and a half million orders per day so
there'll be rotten banana there'll be
delayed order or there'll be all those
sort of customer support tickets I'm
basically saying let me just train this
model myself uh or whatever let me use
what exists out there and give them my
data and build out an application for
myself and start automating every
ticket. And so today, you know, greater
than 50% of the tickets that are raised
on Zeppto, not just like a rules-based
chatbot, are actually solved dynamically
by uh a generative chatbot that's been
modified for our exact use cases. Right?
So, we're focused on like these key
things like search, ads, customer
support, forecasting, supply chain
forecasting. another core part of the
business. We built a lot of uh not
generative AI but a lot of deep machine
learning work that we've done there.
That's exciting. I mean I think one of
the observations is that basically these
are not solved problems yet and that's
actually exciting andor for sure even
this idea that you could do the
everything store across every category
and you can you know basically snap your
fingers and add almost any new category.
Yeah.
All of these things are actually
empowered by the technology themselves
and those are coming at a rap more and
more rapid pace. Actually, maybe to uh
wrap things up, I guess my favorite
question often is what advice would you
give the uh 17-year-old version of
yourself uh and it was not not too long
ago, but uh you it feels like in founder
terms, you know, the founders live uh
many many lifetimes every single year.
So, what would you say to that person
right now? When I started, I was still a
little bit extrinsically motivated, but
I I didn't really internalize that, oh,
like I'm doing this just purely for the
love of building. And then that is sort
of the the maturity journey that I've
been on when I think the first year or
two years or three years of the company
when everything was breaking and we were
going to die multiple times, right? At
that point, it you just basically have a
have a a gut check where you're like,
what are you really doing this for? Uh,
and if you're doing it for, you know,
money or or like, you know, or or fame
or all this other nonsense, then there
are far easier ways to do that. And I I
joke with my team like, you know,
there's far easier ways to make a buck
than to build this crazy contraption,
right? But yeah, so I would basically
tell them that uh, you know, 17-year-old
version or whoever else watching this
that like really do it for the love of
building. That should be the end goal.
The end goal should not be I build so I
can make XYZ or I can get ABC out of it,
but I I'm building so that I have the
opportunity to wake up in the morning
and build again, right? And that's
basically the mindset that I'm in right
now where every day I just wake up and
I'm like,
"Wow, I'm so excited for the next
problem statement, right?" And so it's
just great. Thanks so much for spending
time with me today. This is awesome.
Yeah, likewise. Thanks, Gary. It was
great talking to you.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]