Title: The 7 Most Powerful Moats For AI Startups
Video ID: bxBzsSsqQAM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bxBzsSsqQAM
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-10-03T14:01:00Z
Duration: PT45M6S
Views: 175921
Likes: 2718
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1279

Description:
In the early days of a startup, speed is the best moat. But once you build something people want, how do you maintain your position and defend against the competition? In this episode of Lightcone, we dive into Hamilton Helmer’s Seven Powers framework to find out how these timeless business strategies hold up in today's world of AI startups.

Apply to Y Combinator: https://www.ycombinator.com/apply
Work at a startup: https://www.ycombinator.com/jobs

Chapters:
00:00 - The Moat Problem
01:30 - Th

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

This idea of motes is so pervasive and
so important.
>> It is interesting how motes have just
become much more discussed by aspiring
startup founders now than they were so
pre-AI. What is going to prevent you
from being basically subject to infinite
competition?
>> Like a mote is inherently a defensive
thing and you have to have something to
defend. Otherwise, like
>> If you're nothing Yeah, yeah, you're
nothing to defend. Don't worry about
your motes.
[Music]
Welcome back to another episode of The
Light Cone. Today, we're going to talk
about motes. So, in your head, you might
be thinking about barbarians storming
your gate. You've got this little
startup and you've got every other
company out there who wants to come and
eat your lunch.
Uh and, you know, right outside your
castle is a mote that keeps them away.
Jared, when you were going to college
campuses, this isn't sort of this
trivial thing that people are thinking
about. It's actually uh something that
keeps them
>> from starting companies right now. Yeah,
this is a question that we got from a
lot of very smart college students on on
our on our our recent college trips. And
basically, their question is like, they
don't see how these new AI agent
companies, like a lot of the ones that
we've talked about on on this podcast,
could have motes. Um it plays into this
meme of like the ChatGPT wrapper that
like all of these companies could be
easily cloned. And so, they can see how
you could build a business that makes
some amount of revenue, but they don't
really see how you can build a long
enduring business. And so, I think
>> it's actually not true. I actually think
these businesses do have quite deep and
interesting motes, but they're not
totally obvious what they would be. So,
I think this is an interesting topic for
us to to explore. At our recent AI
Startup School backstage, I had this
exchange with Sam Altman that I thought
was kind of funny. You know, we spend a
lot of time thinking about, you know,
make something people want. Very simple
maxims that are sort of anti-business
school. And yet, this idea of motes is
so pervasive and so important. We sort
of remarked how funny it is that uh one
of the more important books to read
these days is actually business school
fodder. Um
this book called The Seven Powers. So,
today we thought that we would actually
go through those seven powers. What are
they? What are some concrete examples
and ways that a startup founder who's
just starting out uh could or should be
thinking about these things from
real-world examples that we've seen. So,
Diana, can you tell us a bit about this
book? This book was written by Hamilton
Helmer, who taught at Stanford Economic
School and was published in 2016.
And the book title was The Seven Powers,
The Foundations of Business Strategies.
And a lot of the examples are more with
the era of internet companies from the
2000s. So, a lot of the examples are
like Oracle, Facebook,
Netflix, which is a older generation.
So, we want to do a bit of a reboot
right now, how it applies now 2025 with
AI. I think it's a little bit confusing
the way he uses the terminology in the
book. It's called The Seven Powers, but
it would make a lot more sense if you
just called the thing The Seven Motes,
cuz that's really what he's talking
about. He's really talking about seven
categories of motes that a business can
have. And I it's true that the examples
are out of date, but I think the
framework is actually pretty timeless.
Like it turns out, there's just only so
many kinds of motes that a business can
have, and they don't really change. And
so, like
even though the specific like versions
of these motes are different in the AI
agent world, like the categories haven't
changed. Thankfully, we live in a world
where there's markets and there's free
markets where there's lots and lots of
competition. And these motes in a lot of
ways are the only way, if you're running
a business, you can sort of
fight against all of the other people
who might want to do exactly what you're
doing. And um you know, famously, Peter
Thiel talks about uh competition is for
losers. And so, the profound view there
is that given infinite competition, what
is going to prevent you from being
basically subject to infinite
competition? And then, as a result, uh
you know, your margins, how much you can
actually profit off of what you're
selling, goes down to zero. And what
that means is like actually your
business will die. And so, you know,
having a mote is uh relatively
existential eventually. You made a great
point earlier, Gary, that like
this is actually like you kind of have
to worry about this at the right time of
of a startup. Do you want to talk about
like how like early-stage founders
should think about motes? I mean, this
is sort of why we generally tell people
to go find a person with a real problem
and then go solve that problem first.
It's um
what's funny about the world uh that's a
little surprising is that you can go
almost anywhere and find some pain
point, some problem that could be solved
with software and especially with AI
that frankly just isn't being solved.
And if that and they're they're so
numerous and so severe
that if you find that thing and solve
it, you literally can mint a
billion-dollar or 10 billion or even
hundred or hundreds of billions of
dollars uh market cap business.
And it's just lying in plain sight.
That's really the first thing that
people should do. Like you should just
find a problem and go solve it. And
then, along the way, you will probably,
as you work with customers, as you build
the product itself and engineer it and
figure out what data you need for it and
all of these things, like you will
stumble upon these seven powers.
>> Yeah, the motes come later. Like it
would be like pretty dumb for somebody
to decide not to work on a startup idea
because they can't see what the
long-term motes of that idea could be,
right?
>> It is interesting how motes have just
become um
much more discussed by aspiring startup
founders now than they were pre-AI.
Seems like the main reason for that
presumably is just that bigger the
original ChatGPT wrapper meme and that
the mote that most people are worried
about is mote against the big model
companies and how like are you not going
to get crushed by one of the big labs
when they decide this product you're
working on is really valuable and they
want to own it, too. And I think Varun
uh from Winstorf, who we hosted some
time ago, he said it himself, the early
stages at the beginning,
the only mote that startups have is
really just speed.
Once you
pass that and
build something that people want, then
you figure out and go deeper into these
type of motes that we're going to
discuss. I really like Varun's point
that the only mote is speed. That is not
one of the seven powers in the book, but
I think it probably should be. I think
it also comes with a lot of the SOs from
PD because one of the tenants really at
the beginning is, yes, you're a big
company, let's say OpenAI at this OpenAI
is a new Google. It's like, sure, OpenAI
or Anthropic could build all these
features, let's say like Claude Code,
and then compete directly, let's say
with Cursor or etc.
And for a startup like Cursor to really
win even in the beginning is
they had relentless execution because a
larger company
like a Google or Anthropic, it they just
have a lot of more craft that they need
to do in order to ship a product. They
just have all these product managers,
all the operations, it needs to go
through a PRD, some spec doc, and it
takes more a lot more time to ship a
feature as opposed to Cursor. The
incredible story about Cursor, when we
hosted Michael Truel to come talk to the
batch, he was sharing how his product
development cycle for shipping features
and sprint cycles were one day. One day.
So, one-day sprint. In the at the
beginning during a 2023, 2024 around
era,
they would start the
every day with restart the clock and try
to ship things every day. I mean, that's
like insane speed. Like there's no big
company that could ship something at
that speed.
At most,
weeks, couple weeks, and maybe that
larger companies, I don't know if you're
Google, maybe like multiple months or
sometimes years. I mean, they had Google
Bard or Gemini a long time ago. That
took years to get out, right? I think
Cursor and Winstorf are great examples
of when you should start thinking about
the mote because for the first few
years,
I don't think it really mattered that
much. They just had to like they proved
out that, hey, like code gen is going to
be a really valuable application of AI.
The development environment is going to
be very, very important to own. They
like got rapid growth. And then, it's
only when they were at scale that, you
know, like they have to start thinking
about how we're going to defend against
like Claude Code or Codex or all the
other things coming in. And so, like the
mental model that's really stuck with me
is when we spoke to Bob McGrew a couple
of weeks ago. Um
and how I think, Jared, you brought this
up, actually. Was it one way you could
think about it is that sort of all of
these startups are kind of
forward-deployed engineering teams like
for for the labs, maybe. Uh and so, like
early on, actually, because this is all
green field, we don't actually know what
the valuable verticals and products to
build are. So, in a sense, you don't
Step one is to figure out what that is.
And it wasn't actually even 2 years ago,
it wasn't actually clear it was
code gen or um the IDE. Once you figure
that out and you find any sort of struck
gold, then you keep digging. That's when
you have to probably assume you're at
some point you're going to get more
competition because people are going to
realize, oh, this is really valuable.
There's lots of money to be made here.
And then, you have to start like
defending like the treasure you found.
>> So, I mean, all the things that we're
about to cover, aside from speed, are
sort of one to a billion, one to 10
billion, one to a hundred billion, one
to a trillion-dollar sort of problems.
And then, uh the real stupid thing that
people might do is watch this and look
for this as a reason to not even get to
one. Yes. So, that would be probably
>> to use it to like pick between two
different startup ideas because they're
like trying to forecast 5 years in the
future which one will have a greater
mote. Which just isn't how it works. I
mean, literally, you shouldn't do that.
Like a moat is inherently a defensive
thing and you have to have something to
defend. Otherwise, like
Maybe you have nothing to Yeah, yeah,
nothing to defend. Don't worry about
your moat. Yeah.
Otherwise, it's just like a puddle in a
field. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Let's assume
that someone has found something that's
valuable that is worth defending. Should
we talk through what some of the moats
they they could think about are? Yeah,
so process power. Again, like the
terminology is kind of funky, but like
basically it means you built something
that's like you built a very complicated
business with a lot of stuff that's just
hard for people to replicate just
because you like built all this stuff.
And so the example that he uses in his
book is like the Toyota assembly line.
And I think the AI version the AI agent
version of this is just a really
complicated AI agent that's been like
finally honed over like multiple years
to work really well under real-world
conditions. We've we've talked about a
bunch of these on this podcast. Like
Jake Heller with
Case Text is like the original example.
A couple other ones I was thinking about
from more recent companies, we have like
a couple companies that sell AI agents
to banks. We have Greenlight who worked
with Tom. They do KYC for banks. And we
have Casca which like does loan
origination for banks. So it is
essentially tells banks like which loans
they should give. And I think these are
interesting examples because for all of
these AI agents you could build a
version of Greenlight or Casca or Case
Text like a like a demo version in like
a weekend hackathon. And I think when
college students are thinking about
these AI agents, I think what they have
in their mind is like the weekend
hackathon version of the product and
they're like like I could build that in
a week. Like how could that be
defensible? And like the reason is like
the the version you build in a hackathon
isn't useful to anyone. It's like
like like like if Casca or or Greenlight
fail, like the the banks will lose
millions of dollars. This is like
mission-critical infrastructure. It's
it's it's more like a self-driving car.
One way to look at it is way better
engineering
is actually that's like the most
profound form of process power. Like one
example might be Plaid which you know,
the surface area of the number of
financial institutions that they have to
support is so giant. It's you know,
probably on the order of thousands to
tens of thousands of different different
websites, different crawlers. And then
all of the different you know, can you
imagine like Plaid's CICD structure? And
then you know, this is pure speculation,
but if I were
Zach running Plaid, like I you know,
know that I would want to be using code
gen tool the latest code gen tools to be
able to
you know, basically add every new
financial institution on the planet
quicker than anyone else. Like that's
sort of a very profound form of process
power in the modern AI age.
>> I think this is probably the main form
of defensibility for the existing SaaS
companies. Like if you look one
generation before the AI agent
companies, like why is Stripe or
Rippling or Gusto defensible? I think
it's mostly this, right? It's just like
they've just built a lot of software and
it'd be really expensive and hard to
replicate all of it. And like you can't
just copy it from their landing page.
Like there's like like the back-end
logic is like super deep. There's also I
feel like kind of a schlepp blindness
aspect to this going on too where like
the the hackathon version of any AI tool
is like quicker than ever to get to, but
actually the last like 10% of getting it
to work reliably across like tens of
thousands of KYC requests like per day
is sort of like a particular type of
painstaking
drudgery work in a way
that I think like lots of engineers are
just not excited to do. And then that is
also kind of like the teams at OpenAI
are going to experience this too, right?
Like if you're if you're working in one
of the big model labs and there's teams
of people trying to invent AGI,
it's going to be hard to get jazzed
about nailing the like final 5%
consistency on your like KYC tool.
Yeah, and so I I think this is
especially true for like verticals like
KYC that are
require specialized knowledge to even
know what to even to know what the edge
cases are. Like if we had to pick from
the seven powers, like I think speed and
this these are probably like the two
dominant ones that come up the most
often.
And those are most related to execution.
Is where the hardcore builders win.
Having really good product taste and
building the best product really
matters. And I think it comes to a lot
of the point maybe the
the misconception is I think a lot of
these products you can probably build
the 80% solution with 20% of the effort.
But for these
solutions and products to work, you need
the 99% accuracy one which then takes
like
10 times or even sometimes 100 times the
amount of effort, right? Sort of that
Pareto principle type of thing. What
about the the other power for cornered
resources? I think the classic view is
they're just coveted assets or things
that you know, they're not
arbitrageable.
They must be independently valuable. And
then you sometimes they offer
preferential access with you know, rates
that are way lower. So
the classic example that you know, you
could look at is you pharma companies
have these patents that are very hard to
get. They have to come up with them and
then prove them and get through
regulatory approval. And the sheer fact
that they have a patent plus you know
getting through FDA approval is
something that can be very durable. And
it's you know, so powerful that patents
have
limited lifespan because you know, you
don't want people to have that forever.
A more modern example I think you're on
the regulatory side might be you Scale
AI is doing a ton of work with the DOD.
You know, Palantir as well. In order to
even get there, it's you know, a
painstaking process. You you got to hire
the right people. You got to spend a lot
of time in DC and Langley or wherever
you know, you're trying to sell to.
And you've got to literally build um
skiffs like these like sort of you know,
special data centers where you know,
it's at great pain and expense.
You have to get embedded with the
government. But then when you do like
well, you've got it. You know, the
cornered resource in some sense is even
the brain space in people who work in
the government. Like you know, right now
if you're working with AI, like you've
got to go through a Palantir or a Scale
and that's like literally written into
their
public documents around like how they're
thinking about the nature of warfare and
the nature of
you everything that they want to do
having to do with AI moving forward. So
you know, the cornered resource doesn't
have to be a diamond mine. It could be
the diamond mine in your customer's
heads. Those examples are sort of
uh
closer to like being way up in the sky
having this like insane decacorn like
worth hundreds of billions of dollars
sort of situation. But what's relevant
for startups that I think all of us sort
of see every day is sort of what you
were mentioning with this forward
deployed engineer you know, FDE forward
deployed engineer model that that is
what a lot of startups that are
extremely successful today are literally
doing. Like they're going out and
getting a cornered resource in the form
of real data and real workflows.
Literally sitting with a customer who
normally would never get access to good
software. And then spotting okay, this
is sort of the tailored time and motion.
You know, first the
you know, a request comes in by email.
Then we take this and we enrich it in
this way. Sometimes we have to have a
call center call this person. Like
you know, actually understanding what
might be a very boring process.
And then translating that into your own
prompts, your own evals, eventually your
own data sets to tune your own models.
Like those are all things that are
incredibly valuable. And then clearly
there are examples you know, earlier
we're saying like Character AI for
instance,
you know, took LLMs. Obviously built
some of the first LLMs. Then took many
of them and then fine-tuned them in a
way so that they could bring down the
cost of serving those models by 10x. And
so you know, that itself is also a form
of a cornered resource. The best
cornered resource to have is your own
model that can like do the specific work
Yeah. better, right? And for a while
people thought that was the only moat
that you could have in the space. If you
didn't have your own model, like you
were totally hosed. Turns out that's not
true. Turns out that's just one of the
possible moats. Partly that is a threat
people are worried about in in the big
picture. The 10,000 foot scary thing is
if the labs at some point decide to
treat their models as a cornered
resource and they restrict access. I
guess the interesting thing right now is
like it may well be true that the you
know, platonic ideal perfect
manifestation of an AI system will
require a lot of both you know, maybe
pre-training, post-training, RLHF, like
just so many different things that you
have to throw at it to get it to like
ChatGPT level. But we're also so early
in the revolution that you know, even if
just context engineering gets you 80 or
90% of the way there, that's plenty.
That's actually all people need to do
for like the first two years of their
startup almost always. You know, Cursor
didn't start out by doing you know, full
parameter fine-tunes of GPT-5 which they
probably have access to now.
They started just by making something
people want. You know, earlier we were
saying like don't use these frameworks
to count yourself out prematurely. And
this is a very profound version of that.
So the third power we're going to
discuss is switching costs. That is the
concept where you get a moat when your
customers
are
kind of trapped because it becomes very
expensive for them to find other
solution even if the other solution
might be like a little bit better. It's
just very painful for them to switch
financially or in terms of the
operations, time, or effort because they
just have so much of it in the current
solution. And examples that are given in
the book are
um like databases like Oracle. When you
have all of your system of record and
all your data in Oracle, it becomes
incredibly hard to migrate. Like
database migration is something that
people don't do. Other example given is
a Salesforce.
And because once you have all your
customer records in Salesforce, you
build all these workflows, the UI, and
it's just a lot to retrain a lot of your
sales team to use like a new software.
You need to like migrate all the data,
and then
at that point for the company to switch
to a new CRM is probably going to take I
don't know, lose like a whole year of
productivity or something. Even if the
new solution is a little bit better. I
think how AI companies are building moat
with this has to do with a version of
what Gary mentioned with the forward
deploy engineer. We give an example to
this with Happy Robot or Salient where
they start with
specific workflows that are very
customized per company.
And they work with large enterprises.
And part of it is actually with the
forward deploy engineer, they may have
actually very long pilot pilot periods,
which might last like 6 months to a
year. But if they succeed, these convert
into seven-figure contracts. And the
reason why these pilots are so long is
because they're very much building
custom software for the specific
operations in these companies.
And the examples for Happy Robot, they
got customers like DHL, where they went
deep into integrating into a lot of the
workflows for how all their logistic
operations are done, which is very
custom to the DHL operation. Or the
example for Salient, who's building AI
voice agent for the financial industry,
they integrate with banks, and a lot of
the banks have
very different work flows on how they do
a lot of the
loan
consolidation, how do you do the debt
recovery,
how they do a lot of the fraud
monitoring,
and risk, and compliance. And it's all a
little bit different because all these
companies have built
kind of internal tools. And the whole
part of
bringing an AI company that builds these
workflows,
they build custom workflows and
that work with them. But as a result,
the trade-off is you do have very long
pilot cycles.
But the protocol is worth it because you
end up with this big contract. And once
you're in, you're kind of minted.
And the big enterprise is not going to
do another big off because it's going to
it's going to be a huge waste of time
for them to let's try the other whatever
cool AI voice agent company. At that
point is like we just want to get the
benefits. So that's how these AI
companies are winning. I think it's like
at once a moat, and it's also in it's
interesting in the age of AI that uh
simultaneously you could have see how AI
brings down the cost of switching by a
lot. And that's you know, sort of
another lever that a startup could use.
Like if you can write um use code gen to
basically extract data out of old
ossified systems or your competitors,
then you you know, there are things that
might have really relied on switching
costs that you could potentially bring
it down to zero. Yeah, there's actually
two different flavors of switching
costs, right? There's the the old school
ones from the SaaS era.
All the system of records like
Salesforce, but also ATSs like like
Lever and Ashby were where the switching
cost was the painfulness of migrating
data from one system to another. And I
agree with Gary, LLMs might
significantly reduce the switching cost
cuz the LLMs can figure out how to like
morph the data from the old schema into
the new schema. You can use browser like
use browser automation on both sides to
like solve issues where like people
don't let you export the data. But then
there's this new form of switching costs
that I think is pretty native to the AI
era like you're talking about to
Tatiana, which is like these these these
lengthy onboarding processes that lead
to like deep customizations of the logic
of the agent, not just the data, that
didn't really exist in the SaaS era.
Like I guess you'd like customize your
like your Zendesk implementation a
little bit, but like not that much.
Yeah. I mean, and then for AI companies
on the consumer side,
I mean, this is all very nascent, but
like I think memory is already becoming
a bit of a switching cost for me. Like
it actually blew me away that Claude was
so behind on memory. And then, you know,
my relationship with ChatGPT, I feel
like has evolved very significantly in
the last year where I'm like, oh, I
actually just generally it seems to
know, you know, what I'm into and what I
care about. So, you know, that switching
cost I think over time will only become
greater and greater. And so
personalization for consumer is actually
a huge piece of that. What about the
counter positioning, the other moat on
the book? The definition of counter
positioning is
doing something that is difficult for
the incumbent that you were competing
with to copy because it would
cannibalize
their business. I think there's a couple
of ways that this plays out. In every
category, there is a Darwinian
competition
between the existing SaaS
incumbents
building their own AI agents, and the
new AI native companies building AI
agents on top of the existing SaaS
companies. So like for customer support,
the existing SaaS incumbents like
Zendesk and Intercom and Front are all
building their own AI agents. But then
we have like a new wave of companies
that grew up in the last couple years
that are building AI agents that
interface with with the system. I think
it's like I don't know, this could be a
topic of a whole like like cone episode,
which like who will win in in in each of
these fights. I think it's really
interesting. Unstoppable force meets
immovable object. One way where
this is playing out in the counter
positioning is that all almost all these
SaaS companies, their pricing model is
they charge per seat, i.e. per employee.
And this is I think a very big Achilles
heel that they have strategically, which
is that if their AI agents do a good job
and actually work, those companies will
need fewer employees doing this work
because they're like the work will be
automated by AI agents. And in a
and in a simplistic way, that will just
actually reduce the more successful they
are, the more they will reduce the
revenue. My guess is like some of them
will be able to navigate this. Like
especially if they're still founder
controlled, I think like Intercom for
example, like the I think the founder
controlled versions of these companies
are smart enough to recognize that this
is existential, and they may be able to
cannibalize themselves. I think the ones
that are not founder controlled, I don't
have a lot of hope for. It's super hard
to cannibalize your own
revenue. The alternative as we're seeing
is so much of the startups
pricing models are around sort of like
work delivered or tasks completed. I
think it's it's exactly what you said,
but it's also that then switches the
product towards having to actually be
able to complete the work. And then
something I actually repeat at the last
YC batch
the end as closing advice is that I wish
the founders in the batch could just
somehow go spend a month at some of the
late stage companies
cuz the top thing we hear from the
founders running those companies is how
hard a time they're having sort of
resetting the engineering culture in
their org to actually embrace AI, to use
the tools, to want to do like context
engineering and prompt engineering, and
and
the the net result of these teams not
actually being able to be AI native, for
lack of a better term,
is they just can't deliver the products
that work. Right? And so like they both
don't want to switch from per seat
pricing because like that's what they're
used to um uh and in a world of AI being
able to do the work, there's going to be
less seats to sell to. But they also
just cannot deliver on products that can
do the work. And so they they they
wouldn't that pricing model is not going
to make any sense for them either. Yeah,
it's it's like the process engineering
part. They're not good at the process
engineering part for this new kind of
engineering. I mean, something sort of
emerging that's very interesting in a
bunch of YC startups like Avoca for
instance, they're doing customer support
software kind of like ServiceTitan, but
for HVAC. So literally like people who
help you with heating and air
conditioning. And you know, I think
ServiceTitan has something like 1%
wallet share, 1% of the gross
transaction value of like a given HVAC
company. Um which is very small, right?
I mean, people don't spend that much
money on software because these are
relatively low margin service
businesses.
But the wild thing that Avoca discovered
is that, you know, they can come in as
software, but then over time they're
actually getting a bigger and bigger
chunk of the wallet share because they
can get the HVAC people to pay them uh
actually for the customer support piece,
which is not 1% of their spend, but 4 to
10% of their spend. So what you may well
find is that uh this new breed of AI
startup will actually have more growth
uh and uh higher wallet share. So, you
know, actually we may well be all
undervaluing how powerful and how big
the vertical SaaS AI companies will
actually be because you're not like 1%
of wallet share, you can get to 10.
That's what we talked in that episode
where vertical AI SaaS agents will be 10
times at least 10 times bigger than SaaS
because it's really to your point, Gary,
tapping into a whole different part of
the
spend of the companies. It's not the
wallet of software where you're kind of
at this point I suppose it's a bit of a
uh finite budget, but it's really
new space where with things that were
not done possible, and it was mostly
workflows from
from people. And I you know I know that
people are like pretty sensitive about
uh workforce displacement, but you know
customer support for an HVAC services
company is not a fun job and you can
tell because all of these customer
support jobs actually have like 50 80%
annual attrition rates. Like they're
just such torturous not fun jobs that uh
the companies themselves and the call
centers themselves spend almost all of
their time trying to vet and bring in
more people to work on these terrible
jobs. And so when you have better
software, what's sort of happening is
that instead of like people aren't
losing their jobs. These people are
quitting their jobs anyway because it's
a terrible job. And then if anything uh
what Avoca has told me is that many of
the people who were in those customer
support uh
you know sort of roles, uh now they're
actually having more fun jobs because
instead of like managing a whole set of
people who don't want to be there, uh
they're actually managing AI agents and
then handling the interesting weird
cases. The coolest part of it is like
they actually can go in and sometimes
alter the prompts and sometimes you know
actually have an impact a direct impact
on uh both the experience of the
customer, but then also their own
day-to-day. And that immediately is like
a 10 times more interesting job like
wrangling a bunch of AI agents and
making uh the support process better and
better over time. Like that's you know
as knowledge work goes like way more
interesting than follow this script and
read what the computer says.
So Harj, you
you had a really interesting point about
uh second form of counter positioning.
The space has moved so quickly that in
every vertical um
or many verticals, there's sort of early
on emerged one company that's seen as
the early winner in the space and often
it's actually like the second movers. At
least in the YC context, we have seen
over and over again that like advantage
to being the second mover in the space.
Like Stripe came after uh Braintree and
authorized.net bunch of things and was
able to like actually win by just
building a better product. DoorDash came
after Grubhub, Postmates, various other
delivery services and eventually went on
to win. And so I think it's interesting
to sort of just consider about if you're
entering a vertical where it's already
feels competitive or there are already
there's already seem to be like a
early winner in the space, how do you
counter position against them? One thing
I think is really interesting here is
Legora versus Harvey. Legora's obviously
uh both in the legal AI space. Harvey
was the early winner. The counter
positioning that I see from Legora is
Harvey came in early and maybe got early
sales um but focused a lot on fine
tuning as sort of like their
product differentiation when over time
it's seen that that was actually
probably not the right move. You wanted
to actually focus in on the application
layer and actually sort of building a
better
product and and Legora has focused on
that. That's what their branding and
positioning is and it seems to be
working really well for them as a second
mover into the space. A company that
I've worked more closely with Giga ML
entered the customer service space and
they're competing with Ciera and
Decacorn, like really well-known
customer support companies. And from
having seen their sales motion, how
they've been able to sign up some big
customers, their I think their counter
positioning is their product
fundamentally just works better out of
the box and as a result they can have a
much faster sales and onboarding
process. So it's like their counter
positioning is if you want to sort of
get your customer support working as
quickly as possible, um you should go
through like the Giga ML onboarding
process versus like the Decacorn. And I
think that's actually worked quite well
for them. Yeah, Giga ML is an
interesting example of how to your point
about like labor displacement,
it's clear that an AI agent can do this
job not just as well as a human, but
actually much better than a human. Like
the DoorDashers that the Giga ML agents
are talking to, a lot of them don't
speak very good English. They speak all
kinds of languages. You can't hire a
customer support person who's fluent in
200 languages. Um But but LLMs are
actually out of box.
>> of the box. Um and they're infinitely
patient if like there's a bad connection
or
so that's pretty interesting. I think
you have other example where to your
point of a superhuman abilities
is where the AI version of the product
actually works. I think
Harj, you you had the example of a
Duolingo versus Speak. Duolingo's
obviously the biggest language learning
app I think um most consumers know.
The emerging criticism of it I would say
is that um what it's actually just sort
of like a gaming app versus a language
learning app that like the way that app
works is orthogonal to learning a true
language. And then you have Speak um
which is a uses LLM like uses voice to
actually like help you practice and
actually learn the language um and that
counter positioning is working really
well for them, right? It's sort of
Speak has got explosive growth and it's
not trying to compete with Duolingo on
their we've we've got like lots of
gamification and points and sort of like
a great game mechanic. It's competing on
hey, we're actually just the place you
should come if you want to learn the
language by speaking it. I I think the
counter positioning mode is very um so
close and overlaps with the branding
moat idea. I think in the book he talks
about you know like brand is it's
essentially a moat when you become so
well known that even if you have an
equivalent product, um consumers will
still choose you um because of like the
brand effects. I think the example he
used is like Coca-Cola. In the AI
context, I think it's probably harder to
apply brand as a moat directly to
startups cuz it just takes time to
acquire brand. Um
but you can certainly see its effects.
Like the thing that still stuns me is
OpenAI ChatGPT has more consumers using
it per day than Google's Gemini. I think
anyone who understands the models and
uses them um daily would say that Gemini
Pro 2.5 and Gemini Flash 2.5 are like
equivalent models. And Google also had
all the users. Like basically everyone
in the world is a user of Google.
OpenAI had no users initially. Google
was already one of the biggest consumer
brands on the planet. It was almost
certainly the biggest consumer brand on
the internet uh and yet somebody else
came along and built the brand as the
consumer AI app and
Google is like playing catch-up.
>> If someone had tried had told me in 2022
that that's how it would play out, I
would have been fairly incredulous. It's
also a perfect example of counter
positioning again. I mean this is Google
had a uh a business model that required
it to continue to support ads and an
organization that uh they shipped. And
so you have the greatest cash cow in the
history of man. So why would you disrupt
it um even at the cost of setting back
uh human access to knowledge by a few
years. Even if that's like the core
stated goal of Google itself to organize
the world's information. There's also an
untold story of how uh the origin story
of ChatGPT, how it came to be.
Which is really the original moat for
startups with speed. It shipped very
quickly in a matter of months with a
very small team of a couple engineers. I
mean it required uh you know Sam Altman
and YC research and Greg Brockman to go
uh hire Ilya Sutskever out of DeepMind
cuz he was there and you know he all the
people a lot of the people who went on
to help create OpenAI, uh they came from
DeepMind. Like it was already in the
right place. It's just that that place
didn't nurture exactly the thing that
society really needed. For speed. So
that there's that moat again, speed.
Number one.
Do you want to talk about network
economies, Dan? Yeah, on the book uh
network economy is described as uh where
the value of the product increases as
more users or customer get and use the
product and everyone derives more value
as a effect of more people using it. And
examples that were given in the book are
uh Facebook where as you use it and your
friends use it, it's more fun for me to
use Facebook because all my friends are
in there. As more users come in, then is
the social network becomes more
valuable.
And this was very much the era of
where people talked about uh
network effects that came to be.
And the other example he gives is like
Visa, the Visa network where the more
merchants are using Visa,
the more value the consumer gets because
you can swipe the Visa card more places.
Then that becomes the
the moat because it's harder to then
acquire and amass this
number and large number of uh users or
merchants in order to to win. So that
becomes very defensible. In the current
era for AI, the shape of uh network
effects is different. It really comes
into the shape of data. I think a lot of
uh the data that a lot of AI companies
get access to becomes the moat where the
more data they get, the custom models
they build become better and the better
models it becomes a better product for
users. And there's lots of examples of
these. And um
besides like the big foundation
lab companies where they probably use
some of the data. I don't know. I mean
they probably use some of the data from
the users. They probably do.
>> ChatGPT almost certainly like feeds a
lot of that back because you have a
certain reward function for each
training run, right?
>> of every chat from ChatGPT 1 2 3 4
5 now goes fed into GPT-6 and then so on
and so forth. Helps create the
the next model version. And there's uh
even smaller versions of this. For
example, Cursor. They have probably one
of the best uh tab tab auto complete
because one the the free version of
Cursor, they actually say it when you
sign up that they they will use the data
and they use that to train it. And the
more users they get, the
>> it's like all the data. Like I think
it's like quite literally like every
mouse click and every keystroke that you
that you admit when you're using cursor
like is fed into
a model which is like kind of crazy.
Which then the more developers use
cursor, the better the product gets and
then they compound a lot of the a lot of
the wins with that. And the version
where this applies to AI startup is when
they go work with enterprises and large
companies, they get access to private
data. I mentioned earlier Sillian or
Happy Robot when the employees of the
companies where they become customers as
they use their product, they have a lot
of that private data that makes a lot of
the workflows better. And the way they
improve that, which is a second
way of having modes with networks is
really evals. We we talked a lot about
evals being the key mode for AI startups
evals is where you get a lot of the
this workflow work or they didn't work
and then take that back and iterate and
improve your contact engineering. And
that is a flywheel that you can only
achieve when you get more and more usage
of your product.
Whether it be in a consumer or a
or a AI vertical SaaS agent.
So now the last mode in the book is
scale economies. Jared, do you want to
tell us about it? Scale economies or
economies of scale, you've invested a
lot of money to build something that's
really big and as a result you have a
economies of scale and you can offer the
service cheaper than anybody else. So
like the classic example would be like
UPS or FedEx or the Amazon delivery
network they built like massive like
physical infrastructure and as a result
they have like a lower cost per unit um
compared to a smaller competitor. Um I
think the way this has played out in the
AI world, I don't think it's actually
played out that much at the application
layer. It's really played out at the
model layer, right? Like training a
state-of-the-art LLM is very capital
intensive. Only a few companies can
afford to do it. Once you've done it,
you can afford to like let people do
inference on that model very
inexpensively. This is why the Deep Seek
announcement was so
um was so earth-shattering last year
because it seemed like it might be a lot
cheaper than people previously thought
to train a frontier LLM which would
greatly diminish the power of this like
economies of scale mode that people
thought the the AI labs had.
>> The key thing about Deep Seek was they
figured out and made public this new
unlock for models which is how to do RL.
They still build on top of a one of the
large foundation models, so it's still
expensive. That RL part is cheaper, but
you still need the very expensive big
foundation model. So that's one of the
things that the media got wrong. There's
a separate question that people talk
about which is like how will the
foundation model companies be defensible
against each other? And like this is
certainly one way, right? It's just like
it's it's very hard to be a new entrant
into that game now because of this
economies of scale. And we were we were
thinking earlier about like how this had
played out with startups.
And there's not that many examples, but
I think a couple of good ones, well one
one good one is a is a company of yours
Exa. Harsh, do you want to explain what
what Exa does? Yeah, Exa is essentially
search for AI agents. Um it provides an
API for anyone building AI applications
that wants to search the web. And the
way I I think this is playing out for
Exa is in order to provide that service,
they need to crawl the web. Not the
whole web like Google does, but a big
chunk of it. And that's very expensive
to do. It requires like a large fixed
capital investment. And but then once
once you crawl a big chunk of the web,
you can reuse that same crawl for for
many different customers. I think what's
interesting about Exa, the the parallel
to the model companies is that they they
had invested in that like sort of before
agents had really taken off. Like they
were fairly early to this. I think their
work on this actually even pre-chat GPT
launching. So they made the investment
early
on to get better same way that the lab
companies took a bet on like
transformers and
and scaling laws. Yeah. And there are
two companies in just the most recent
batch, uh Channel 3 and Orange Slice,
that are both doing Exa.ai like plays
where they crawl a big chunk of the web,
have a big like static crawl on their
own servers and then have agents that
run on top of those of that crawl. So I
think we're going to see more and more
of this especially as the web agents
work better. You need to mainly focus on
uh the first mode that isn't even in the
book, which is speed. Like you know, if
you're really breaking your brain about
like oh well, are we going to be a
cornered resource or not? You're just
thinking about it in the wrong way. Like
you should not start there. You should
start with do I have a specific person
who has some sort of pain point and it's
pretty painful. It's not like a oh, it'd
be nice if I could do this. It's a oh, I
am not going to get promoted this year.
Maybe I will get fired. Like this is so
painful that I don't want to go to work
today. Like that's sort of the type of
pain that you're looking for. And if you
can write software or build things that
actually alleviate that pain. Like
existential pain. Like the business is
going to go out of business or oh my
god, we could totally take over
everything next year. Like that's sort
of the feeling that you want in your
customer. Uh if you can find things like
that go go zero you know, go find that
and go zero to one on that first. With
that, see you guys next time.
[Music]