Title: The Truth About The AI Bubble
Video ID: cqrJzG03ENE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cqrJzG03ENE
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-12-22T15:01:25Z
Duration: PT30M23S
Views: 103214
Likes: 1718
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 884

Description:
2025 was the year AI stopped feeling chaotic and started feeling buildable. In this Lightcone episode, the YC partners break down the surprises of the year, from shifting model dominance to why the real opportunity is moving back to the application layer, and why the next wave of AI startups may be just getting started.

00:00 Intro
00:50 Anthropic models are most preferred in the latest YC batch
05:36 Why aren’t there more AI consumer apps? 
07:01 Swapping models in and out is becoming the norm

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I think perhaps the thing that most
surprised me is the extent to which I
feel like the AI economy stabilized. We
have like the model layer companies and
the application layer companies and the
infrastructure layer company seems like
everyone is going to make a
lot of money and there's kind of like a
relative playbook for how to build an AI
native company on top of the models.
Many episodes ago we talked about how it
was felt easier than ever to pivot and
find a startup idea cuz if you could
just survive like you could just wait a
few months there was likely going to be
some like big announcement that would
completely make a new set of ideas
possible and so like finding ideas is
sort of returning to sort of normal
levels of difficulty.
Welcome back to another episode of the
Light Cone. Today we're talking about
the most surprising things that we saw
this year in 2025.
Diana, you found a pretty crazy one.
It's sort of a changing of the guard
almost in who is the preferred LLM at YC
during the YC batch. Yes, in fact we
just wrapped up the winter 26 selection
cycle for companies and one of the
questions we asked to all the founders
apply to YC is what is your tech stack
and model of choice. And one of the
shocking things is that for the longest
time OpenAI was the clear winner
for all of last year, last couple of
batches, though that number has been
coming down. And shockingly in this
batch the number one API is actually
Anthropic. Came out a bit more than
OpenAI. Which who would have thought? I
think when we started this podcast
series back then OpenAI was like 90 plus
percent. And now
Anthropic. Who would have thought?
>> Yeah. And you know they'd been hovering
around like 20 25% for most of like 20
2024 and early 2025 and then only even
in the last 3 to 6 months did this sort
of changing of the guard actually
happen.
>> They had that this hockey stick with the
with the growth of over 52%. Why do you
think that is? I think there's a couple
of things in terms of the tech stack
selection. I think as we've seen this
year
there's been a lot of wins in terms of
vibe coding tools that are getting built
out out there and coding agents or so
many categories that doesn't end up
being a bigger
problem space that actually is creating
a lot of value. And it turns out the
model that performs the best at it is
actually uh models from Anthropic.
And I think that's not by accident. I
think from the hearing the conversation
we had with Tom Brown not too long ago,
he came and spoke is that was one of
their internal evals. They on purpose
made them their north star and you can
see it in the model taste as a result of
what's the best choice of model for a
lot of founders building products is
Anthropic. The vast majority of the use
cases people are using it for though is
not coding. So I wonder if there's like
a bleed through effect where people are
using Claude for their personal coding
and then as a result they're more likely
to choose it for their application even
if their application is not doing coding
at all.
>> Cuz you'd be very um familiar with like
the personality of Claude Opus or
whatever they're choosing. Sonnet I
suppose. How about Gemini? How's Gemini
doing in these rankings? Gemini's also
pretty much has been climbing up pretty
pretty high. I think last year was
probably single digit percent or even
like two three percent and uh now for
winter 26 is about 23%.
And uh we personally been using also a
lot of Gemini 3.0 and we've been
impressed with the with the quality of
it. I think it's really really working.
I mean they have all different
personalities, don't they?
>> Yeah. It's uh it's kind of the classic
where OpenAI sort of has the black cat
energy.
And almost like uh
Anthropic is kind of more of the
happy-go-lucky, a bit more very helpful
golden retriever. At least that's what
it feel going to talk to them. And
[clears throat] how about Gemini? It's
kind of like in between. Jared, you
prefer Gemini actually. Yeah, I switched
to Gemini this year as my just go-to
model. I think even before 2.5 Pro came
out and just seemed better at reasoning
for me. It was just like the
increasingly I replaced my Google
searches with Gemini and I just sort of
trusted that Google's I think like the
grounding API and its ability to
actually like use the Google index to
give you like real time information
correctly. I just found it was better
than I I
personally I found it was better than
all the other tools for that and it was
better than Perplexity on it too. Like
Perplexity would be fast but not always
accurate and Gemini was not quite as
fast as Perplexity but it was always
pretty accurate if I asked it about
something that happened today for
example.
>> Even if you use Gemini as the reasoning
engine in Perplexity.
I have not done that.
>> Interesting. Yeah. So it's hard to know
like how much of it is the tooling and
how much of it is like the base LLM.
>> That's fair. Yeah, I mean what are you
guys's tools of choice? I haven't
switched off of ChatGPT. I mean I find
the memory very sticky. It knows me, it
knows my personality, it knows the
things that I think about and so I'll
use Perplexity for fast web searches or
things that um you know I know is like a
research task cuz I think ChatGPT is
still like a little bit of a step behind
for searching the web. I don't know. I
think memory is turning into
um
an actual moat for like that consumer
experience and I don't expect Gemini to
ever have the personality that I would
expect from ChatGPT. It just feels like
a different like entity, you know. The
thing I'm still surprised about is why
there just aren't more
consumer apps around like all the
various things we do. Like if I think
back, one of the big changes for me this
year is just the amount of
prompting and context engineering I do
for like my life. Like I know we we
bought a house recently and like the
whole thing like I just had like a
really long running ChatGPT conversation
stuffing it full of context of like
every inspection report or like wanting
it to be like level the playing field
between me and like the realtor to
understand kind of all the dynamics and
things that are going on. And it just
feels like there should be an app for
that.
>> But simultaneously I'm sure you took the
uh
PDFs and just like dropped them into
Gemini and said like well summarize and
tell me what's important for me.
>> I guess I worry about I worried about I
still don't trust the models enough to
be accurate without lots of prompting
and it's a high value transaction so you
don't want to like get incorrect data
out of it. So I still feel like you need
to put in the work and it feels like
there should still be apps
that just do all the work for you.
>> Did you see Karpathy release like sort
of a LLM arena of a sort which I mean I
do by like hand right now using tabs.
It's like you have Claude open, you have
Gemini open, you have ChatGPT open and
you give it the same task and then you
take the output from each and then I
usually go to Claude at that point and
I'm like all right Claude, this is what
the other one said. What do you think?
And check each other's work. I actually
think that that particular behavior of
the consumer that level that we're doing
startups are doing as well. They are
actually arbitraging all of the models.
I had some conversations with a number
of founders where before they might have
been loyalists to let's say OpenAI
models or Anthropic and I just had some
conversations recently with them and
these are founders that are running
larger companies like series B level
type of companies with AI, they're
actually
abstracting all that away and building
this orchestration layer where perhaps
as each new model release comes out,
they can swap them in and out or they
can use specific models that are better
at certain things for just that. For
example, I heard from the startup they
used Gemini 3
to do the context engineering which they
actually then fed into OpenAI to execute
it. And they keep swapping it as new
models come up and the winner for each
category or
type of agent work is different and
ultimately they can do this because it
it is all grounded based on the evals
and the evals are all proprietary to
them because they they're a vertical AI
agent and they just work in a very
regulated industry and they have this
data set that just works the best for
them. I think this is the new normal
right now where people are expecting
yeah that it's cool that the model
companies they're spending all this
money and
making intelligence faster and better
and we can all benefit. Let's just do
the best. It's almost like the era of
Intel and AMD with the new architecture
would come up. People could just swap
them, right? Yeah, it feels at the
highest level that angst around where's
the value going to accrue? Is it going
to go to the model companies or like the
application layer or are either
startups? Feels like that
ebbs and flows in either direction a
little bit throughout the year to me.
Like it feels there are moments where
like Claude code amazing launch and it
was like oh okay like the model
companies are actually going to play at
the application layer. But then to me at
least there's all vibes based like
Gemini surge especially over the last
few months just feels like it returns us
to a world of where exactly that like
the models are all essentially
commoditizing each other and it's just
like the
application layer and the startups are
going to set up to have another
fantastic year if that continues. I'm
curious what you think Jared with some
a lot of perhaps
the negative comments on Twitter around
is this a bit of a bubble AI bubble?
Yeah. When I talk to undergrads, this is
like a common question that I get is
like oh like I heard it's a big AI
bubble because like there's all this
like crazy rocket tripping going between
Nvidia and OpenAI and like is it
is it is is it all fake? Yeah.
>> No, this is fantastic, right? Like
people look at the telecom bubble is
like there's just you know billions of
dollars like tens of billions, hundreds
of billions just like sort of sitting in
a bunch of telecom back in like the you
know 90s. Actually that's why YouTube
was able to exist, right? Like if you
just have a whole bunch of extra
bandwidth that isn't being used and is
relatively cheap, the cost is low enough
for like something like YouTube to
exist. Like if there wasn't a glut of
telecom, then like maybe YouTube would
have happened it just would have
happened later. And then that isn't that
like sort of what we're talking about
here? Like how do we we have to
accelerate, right? We have the age of
intelligence, the rocks can talk, they
can think, and they can do work, and you
just have to zap them more, and you get
like smarter and smarter stuff at this
point. I think the argument to college
students is actually like because there
will be a glut, there is an opportunity
for you. And if there was not a glut,
then there wouldn't be as much
competition, the prices would be higher,
the margins lower in the stack would be
higher, right? And then, you know,
what's one of the big stories this year?
Like Nvidia suddenly is on the outs.
Like I think their stock is today is
like around 170s or something. You know,
I think I'm still a long-term buy and
hold, honestly, but for the moment
people like, "Oh, well, Gemini's so
good." And all the you know, nobody
seems to be Nvidia only now, and
everyone's buying AMD, and everyone's
buy you know, and TPUs are working. So,
you know, at the moment it looks like
there's you know, what does that mean?
Like there's competition.
And uh it means that there will be more
compute, not less. And then that means
that probably a little bit better things
for all of the big LLM companies, like
sort of the you know, the AI labs. Uh
they get a little bit of power, but you
know, they too are in competition with
one another. So, then what does that
mean? Well, then it's you know, go up
another level in the stack, right? Like
as long as there are a great many AI
labs that are in deep competition with
one another, then uh that's even better
for that college student who's about to
start a company at the application
level. Yeah, I think that's exactly
right. It's like peo- people are asking
this question, like is it a bubble?
That's maybe a question that's really
relevant if you're like the equivalent
of like Comcast. Like if you're Nvidia,
that's a very relevant question. Like,
"Oh, are people overbuilding GPU
capacity?" But like the college
students, they're not Comcast. They're
actually like YouTube. If you're doing a
startup in your dorm room, it's like the
AI equivalent of like YouTube. And like
kind of doesn't really matter that much.
Maybe Nvidia's stock will go down next
year, I don't know. But like even if it
does, that doesn't actually mean that
it's like a bad time to be working on an
AI startup.
>> Yeah, it's what Zuck said in a political
savvy this year, I think, right? It's
like Meta may end up over investing like
a significant amount in like the CapEx
infrastructure, but like they
essentially have to the big companies
have to do it cuz they can't just like
sit on the sidelines. And in the case
like
demand falls off a cliff for some
reason, it's their CapEx, not the
startups' CapEx. And they're still going
to be tons of infrastructure and ideas
to still continue building. There was
this book written by this economist
called Carlota Perez, who studied a lot
of uh tech trends, and it studies a lot
of um
technology revolutions, and it
summarizes as there's really two phases.
There's the phase of uh installation,
which is where a lot of the very heavy
CapEx investment come in.
And then there's the deployment phase,
where really ripples it it where rips,
and then everything explodes in terms of
abundance.
And during the initial phase of
installation is where it feels like a
bubble. There's a bit of a frenzy
because it starts first with a there's
this new technology that's amazing,
which happened with the ChatGPT moment
in 2023. Everyone got super excited
about the tech, and then everyone's got
super hyped and got
into investing into a lot of the
infrastructure with buying a lot of GPUs
and all the giant gigawatt data center
buildout. And then people are like, "But
what is the demand? What are going to be
all the applications to be built out?" I
think right now we're in that
transition, which is actually really
good news for startup founders because
they are not involved into the building
the data centers, but they're going to
build the next generation of
applications in the deployment phase
when it really proliferates. And what
happened just going back to the analogy
with with the era of the internet,
before the 2000, there was a lot of
heavy CapEx investment into the telcos,
right? Those were giant projects that
college students wouldn't be involved,
but they were very heavily invested. And
in some cases were over-invested. I
mean, there's a whole thing with dark
fiber and some pipes that are not used,
and that's fine.
The internet ended up being still a
giant economic driver.
And what that means is startups like the
future Facebook or the future Google are
yet to be started because those come in
in the deployment phase. Because right
now things things things are still
getting built up. I I do think the
foundation lab companies and GPUs very
much are falling into the bucket of
infrastructure. Yeah. I mean, it's
interesting to watch uh how the stuff is
evolving a little bit. So, do you
remember summer 2024, there was a
company called Star Cloud that came out
and was one of the first to come out and
say, "We're going to make data centers
in space." And what was the reaction
when, you know, people thought
>> on the internet, yes. They said that's
the stupidest idea ever. You know, I
guess 18 months later, uh suddenly
Google's doing it, Elon's doing it.
>> it in [laughter] every interview now,
apparently.
>> Is that right? Yeah, it seems to be like
his top talking point.
>> Yeah. And so, I mean, why is that? Like
I feel like one of the aspects is that
like
part of the um infrastructure buildout
right now that's so intense is like we
literally don't have power generation.
Boom Supersonic, instead of making
supersonic jets right now, is on this
good quest to create enough power for a
bunch of these
AI data centers that are being built
right now. They use jet engines.
And even those like are so bad you know,
the supply chain for jet engines to
generate power for data centers is so
backed up that, you know, you would have
had to have ordered these things,
you know, two or three years ago
just even have it in two or three years
from now.
You know, these constraints
uh end up like influencing like fairly
directly what the giant tech companies
need to do to win the game three or five
years out.
Like suddenly there's not enough land,
you know, in America we can't build. The
regulations are too high. In California
we have CEQA, which is totally abused by
the environmental lobby to stop all
innovation and building housing, by the
way. We just don't have enough
terrestrially like to just do the things
that society sort of needs right now.
So, you know, the escape valve is like,
"Actually, let's just do it in space."
Yeah, come to think about we we kind of
have the trifecta of YC companies that
are solving the data center buildout
problem. Well, you need fusion energy.
>> Yeah. Yeah, well, we
have the company that's solving the no
land problem by building the data
centers in space. We have Boom and
Helion, which are solving the we don't
have enough energy problem. I just
funded a
uh a space fusion company that just
graduated called Zephyr Fusion. And they
actually had a great seed round out of
demo day. They're in their 40s, they're
national lab engineers who their entire
careers they were building, you know,
tokamaks and fusion energy. And they
came into the lab one day, they looked
at the physics, they, you know, looked
at the math and the models, and they
said, "You know what? If we did this in
space, it would actually pencil." And
so, that's they're on like this sort of
grand next 5-10 year quest to actually
manifest it, to actually create it in
space um because the equations say that
it is possible.
And uh if they do it, it's actually the
only path to gigawatts of energy
uh up there in space. So, you know, it
might be you know, an even more perfect
trifecta uh shortly. So, the thing I
also feel like happened over the course
of this year is the um interest in
starting model companies. I think I
guess at maybe at both ends. There's
like the people who can raise the
capital to go and actually try and build
a head-on competitor to OpenAI, which
there are very very few, like maybe at
Ilya with SSI. But then more so within
YC, people are trying to build like
smaller models. Um I've certainly had
more of those in the last few batches
than before. Like whether it's sort of
like a models run on edge devices or
maybe like a voice model specific to a
particular language. And
I'm curious to see if that trend
continues. Going back to the early era
of YC, actually, we sort of saw the
explosion of just startups being
created, and maybe especially SaaS
startups. Partly what what um fed that
was just knowledge about startups became
more dispersed. There wasn't like kind
of library information on the internet
about like how to start a startup, how
to build software. And then over like a
decade that just became more
commonplace, and that just exploded like
society's knowledge of startups and how
to build things. And it's may feels like
maybe we're going through that moment in
sort of the AI
research meets like actually building
things.
>> With with training models, I think we
are absolutely going through that right
now. Yes. Like where where it's going
from being a very rare skill set to a
more common one. Cuz like OpenAI a
decade ago was like a rare like you
needed you needed like a
unique combination of skills, right? You
needed like your researcher brain, your
sort of like engineering brain, maybe
like your sort of finance business
brain. Wait, wait, wait. So, did you
just describe Ilya, Greg, and Sam?
>> You got it.
>> [laughter]
>> That was like a rare team, right? There
was just wasn't that configuration of
team around very much. And now, a decade
later, there's like a plethora of people
who have like the research background,
the engineering background, um the
startup capital raising um background.
Or at least can be taught how to do all
of that kind of stuff. And I'm curious
if that would just mean we'll just see
more
applied AI company starting, and maybe
there'll be like even more models to
choose from for all the very specific
tasks. I think so. I think the other
thing that's even contributing and
making this a even bigger snowball is
because of RL. I think there's all these
new open source models that people are
doing the fine-tune on top of it with a
particular RL environment and task. So,
it is very possible that you can create
the best
domain-specific, let's say, healthcare
model trained on a generic open-source
model by just doing fine-tuning on it
and doing RL. It beats the regular big
model. Actually, I've heard and seen a
number of startups where their
domain-specific model beats uh OpenAI,
let's say, on healthcare. There's this
particular YC startup that told me that
they collected the best dataset for
for healthcare, and they ended up
performing better than OpenAI in a lot
of the benchmarks for for healthcare
with only 8 billion parameters. I guess
what's funny is that you do need to have
a post-training infrastructure. Uh you
know, we've also had YC companies where
uh they had something that beat OpenAI,
uh you know, GPT-3.5,
and they were doing fine-tuning with RL,
but then uh yeah, GPT-4.5 and then 5.1
came out and uh you know, basically blew
their fine-tuning out of the water. You
have to keep [clears throat] going,
yeah.
>> Yeah, you got to keep going. Yeah, I
mean, you actually have to continue to
uh get to the edge. Anything else uh
that really sort of stood out from
this past year that jumps out to you? Uh
it's funny, we started the year with one
of our episodes that got a lot of views
around vibe coding.
I think we were talking about it more as
observing a behavior that was happening
from our founders.
And I was surprised to see that this
became like a giant category. There's
lots of companies that are winning. I
mean, we have Replit, there's Emergents,
there's a bunch of them. Varun Mohan had
gone over to Google. He released
antigravity. And uh did you guys see the
video? I actually am sort of curious
whether they actually used Nano Banana
or any of these video gen things cuz
it's like a little too perfect, but
Google has the budget to do the high
production value video, but it's you
know, Varun at the keyboard, and then
you know, Sergey is like right behind
him. So, it was like it was very
cinematic. Anyway, I think Sundar was uh
you know, also not only talking about um
space data centers Uh he was also
talking about vibe coding, and I knew
that I was a little bit trolling back,
but knowing what we know, I mean, yes,
vibe coding is not
you know, completely usable and
trustable for uh you know, 100% of your
coding, period. Like this
you know, it is not true that you can
like ship 100 100% solid production code
today as of 2020 and the end of 2025.
Yeah, I was thinking about things that
surprised me in 2025, and I think
perhaps the thing that most surprised me
is the extent to which I feel like the
AI economy stabilized. Like I feel like
when we did this episode at the end of
2024, it felt like we were still in the
middle of a period of incredibly rapid
change where the ground was shifting
under our feet, and like nobody knew
when the other shoe might drop, and like
what exactly was going to happen with
startups in AI and the economy. Now I
feel like we've kind of settled into
like a fairly stable AI economy where we
have like the model layer companies and
the application layer companies, and
seem and the infrastructure layer
companies, and it seems like everyone is
going to make a lot of money, and
there's kind of like a relative playbook
for how to build an AI-native company on
top of the models. I feel like things
really kind of matured in that way.
Which shows is all downstream of like
the models themselves have incrementally
improved this year, but there haven't
been like major steps forward that have
shaken everything up, which is has a
knock-on effect. Many episodes ago, we
talked about how it was felt easier than
ever to pivot and find a startup idea
cuz if you could just survive, I mean,
if you could just wait a few months,
there was likely going to be some like
big announcement that would completely
make a new set of ideas possible and
create more opportunities to build
things. If certainly feels like that has
slowed down, and so like finding ideas
is sort of returning to sort of normal
levels of difficulty in my experience
and not just ours. I agree. I'll tell
you what's not a surprise. Do you
remember that report AI 2027 where it
was just sort of like this doomer piece
that said like, "Oh, well, society's
going to start falling apart in 2027."
But you know, at some point they quietly
revised it to say that it wasn't 2027,
but they kept the title. Maybe it's not
a surprise. Like I was always a little
bit of a skeptic um
of like this fast takeoff argument
because even with the scaling law, it is
uh log-linear. So,
it is slower. It requires like 10x more
compute, and it's still sort of, you
know, topping out, right? And uh that's
one form of good news. Another form of
it's weird to call this good news, but
human beings uh don't like change.
>> [snorts]
>> In our previous episode where we sort of
blew up that uh MIT report that said
that, you know, 98% or 90% of uh
enterprise AI projects fail. Well, it
turns out that 90% of uh enterprises
don't know how to do, you know, IT, let
alone AI. It's weird to say that that's
a good thing, but in the context of fast
takeoff, like that is a real break on
the ability of this new really insane
technology from actually permeating
society. I love to accelerate, but like
it's weird to say like, "Oh, well,
actually, in this case, maybe that's a
good thing, right? Like it is a
shockingly powerful technology, but you
know, between being log-linear scaling
and human beings really don't like
change, like organizationally speaking,
society will absorb this technology.
Everyone will have enough time to sort
of process it, like culture will catch
up, governments will be able to respond
to it not in like a frantic SB 1047 sort
of like, you know, let's stop all the
compute past 10 to the 26, right? Like
just these knee-jerk responses to
technology. We're excited about um the
Arc AGI prize is uh you know, going to
come in and do the winter 26 batch as a
nonprofit. The funny thing about that is
like, yeah, maybe there's
um a team right now that is climbing the
leaderboard of Arc AGI, and they're
going to accelerate this thing again.
>> Something that surprised me relates to
that with the startups is I remember
around this time last year we were
talking about how companies are getting
to a million dollars ARR and raising
series A's without hiring. Like some
case not hiring anyone, just the
founders, maybe hiring one person, which
just felt very unusual. I feel like a
year on
that hasn't translated into, okay, and
then they went and hit like 10 million
ARR, or they they they scaled without
adding any more people to. No, they turn
around started and started hiring like
actual teams.
>> [laughter]
>> Like post-series A actually largely
feels like the playbook is the same, and
the companies might be smaller for the
same amount of revenue, but it feels
it's entirely because they hit the
revenue so fast, and they're still just
bottlenecked on how long it takes to
hire people versus they have demand for
less people. I still think there is like
a you know, some effect, but it is not
like open and shut. It is not like you
don't have to hire executives anymore. I
think there are like might be a case of
two foie gras startups, like one being
Harvey and the other one being Open
Evidence, right? Harvey, the founders
are incredible. Uh they were very early,
and then there's this sort of idea of
like for VCs, you could just go down
Sand Hill Road, and like the fix is in.
Like you just sort of block out all of
them, and then all the people, you know,
there are maybe 30 people who could
write checks of like 10 to 100 million
dollars, and if you just sort of get all
of their money, like there's sort of no
one who can actually come in and do the
next series A, and then basically you're
safe. Like you have capital as a
bludgeon is capital as a moat in that
case, right? So, yeah, Harvey's
interesting because, you know, uh Llama
is coming fast for them, and obviously,
we have some skin in the game on Llama,
but we think that they have as good a
shot at any. I guess that's one trend
that we saw in 2025 is that there was
like a first wave of like AI-headed
companies like Harvey, who might have
wasted a lot of money on fine-tuning,
actually. Totally. That like broke out
really big in 2023 and kind of did a
victory lap that, you know, oh, we've
won the the space, and now we're seeing
a second wave of companies like Llama
and Giga, and it turns out that like,
oh, actually like
it isn't so simple. Yeah, the weird
beneficiary of um
you know, burning some non-trivial
double-digit percentage of your capital
stack on fine-tuning that buys you no
advantage is like basically the
investors are the only winners there cuz
they just own more of your company, you
know. Yes, at least as it relates to
like the the hiring and team size, I
feel like of the two camps, one being
the AI is going to make everything more
efficient, you will need less people,
and the other AI is going to reduce the
cost of like producing the time to
produce things, and so then the
expectations from your users and
customers will just go up, and you'll
need to keep hiring more people to
satisfy like the growing expectations. I
feel like this year has been more in
that second camp. And I think that is
what's driving the fact that the
companies are still just hiring as many
people as they were pre-AI. It's just
like the bar for what the soft what
their customers expect, and they're all
in the you know, like Llama is racing
with Harvey, Giga is racing with Sierra.
Like they're all still competing for the
same set of customers, and they're still
ultimately a bottlenecked on like
people, and like I don't think anyone's
bottlenecked on ideas, but they're
bottlenecked on like people who can
execute really well. I know, I think I
think that's like still it's it's
exciting. Feels like an exciting phase.
I agree with you that like the uh era of
the one person running a trillion-dollar
company is not here. Not yet. Yeah, but
I think it's going to trend that way
eventually. That'll be a wild time.
Maybe that's a prediction for for next
year, 2026. Yeah. You think it's coming
in 2026? I mean, I don't think it'll
happen in 2026 either, honestly. I mean,
I think you will have many stories of
companies run by, you know, under 100
people that are making hundreds of
millions of dollars. So, I mean, Gamma
was interesting to see like uh one of
the biggest things that they said in
their launch that I think is a very good
trend is they said they got to 100
million dollars in ARR with only 50
employees. So, which is a very different
it's, you know, such an in inversion,
right? Like normally, you have the big
banner and the like little X thing you
know image and it's like oh yeah like we
raised all this money and look at all
the people who work for us. It's a good
trend to have the reverse flex which is
like look at all this revenue and look
how few people work for us. Well, that's
all we have time for this time. We just
wanted to wish you a really happy
holidays and happy New Year from all of
us to you and yours. See you next time.