Title: The Model-Agnostic AI Platform Betting That No Single Lab Will Win
Video ID: DbBnd9PYob4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DbBnd9PYob4
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-23T14:00:16Z
Duration: PT22M52S
Views: 5509
Likes: 100
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 603

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

model agnostic which I think is a is a
very interesting aspect of that and
that's something that the labs would not
be able to do. Uh if you think about
buying your product and your tokens uh
at the same place, it's like if you were
uh building a plant with machines in
there and you would buy the machines
from the energy provider and the plug
would only work with one energy provider
and if you if your energy provider was a
Russian gas would be in a pretty bad
place right now and you wouldn't be able
to connect to nuclear French nuclear
makes no sense.
Um, so you can uh give a round of
applause to Stan Hulu. [applause]
>> Thank you for having me.
>> I feel like we're super lucky to have
him. Uh, he's extremely wise. He's going
to talk a little bit about building in
the shadow of Frontier Labs. And then at
the end, I want to ask him about company
building because Dust has been a company
that has been super thoughtful in how
they've raised, hired, operated. And so
I want to be able to share some of this
knowledge with you. Um maybe let's get
started. Can you tell us who you are?
>> I'm Stan. Uh I was lucky to join Stripe
pretty early. Spent five years there.
That was an aqua year when we joined
Stripe and then at the end of those five
years got interested in into AI. uh I'm
not a trained researcher but I was uh
also lucky again to uh join OpenAI at a
time where you could do research as an
engineer and uh was all possible and
spent three years there working on large
language models and maths.
>> And you decided to leave OpenAI.
>> Yes.
>> Why?
>> Crazy, huh?
>> Right. Yeah.
>> I think the there's a there's a fun fact
on this one. I think if I stayed at
OpenAI, I think it's not true anymore.
Both series B, but the uh stock option
that I gave up were more than the whole
company as of six months. That's that
seems like a bad idea.
>> Yeah. Still, do you regret it?
>> No, not at all.
>> So, why did you leave?
>> So, really uh research is a very
specific exercise. Uh I'm I'm again, as
I said, I'm not a trained researcher and
so I spent those three years doing kind
of the PhD that I never did. really
enjoyed it. But I at the end I really
wanted to go back to building a product.
When you do research it's really uh you
know you're scratching a surface for
weeks or months and then you find
something interesting gets you like
super high super high but it lasts for 5
seconds literally 5 seconds and after 5
seconds you're like oh yeah that was a
you keep scratching again. So I think
it's a it's a I mean it's something
interesting and I and I really enjoyed
it but wanted to go back to building
something more around the product
>> and so you decided to build something uh
on top of the labs. So you started dust
can you tell us more about what dust is?
>> Yeah sure obviously we live in a world
where the definition of the company is a
moving targets uh because we're
operating on a techn technological
substrate that moves super fast for the
past 20 years. You've known that. I've
known that the technological substrate
was JavaScript and posgress. It was kind
of a rock solid. You could see what you
would be building in years and that's
not necessarily the case. But I think
the dust really the initial uh
motivation was very simple. It's like
those models are are ready uh to like
really change the way we're going to
work and we want to focus on applying
LLMs to the workplace which in 2022 or
early 2023 when we were raising was
almost considered a niche which was fun.
Uh but yeah that's the main idea.
Obviously the what itself evolves a lot.
>> So you spend a lot of time thinking
about work and how work is going to
evolve. So if you're right in how you're
thinking about it today, what do you
think is going to happen like two to
three years from now? [snorts]
>> Wow. Two to three years feels like uh
>> impossible to predict anything at this
stage.
>> Just try to tell us what work looks like
two to three years from now. Your best
guess.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm a bit of a Samman.
I mean, he said that at some point. I
think I I I I relate to that. I mean if
you think about about our great
grandparents
um walk was mostly physical or great
great grandparents whatever is the
number of great uh and if they were
looking at us today they would be like
you're not walking here you're just
sitting in a chair looking at a screen
all day chilling around that's not work
and so I think like two to three years
that I'm pretty convinced in a and I'm
pretty optimistic that we'll still be
walking but that work will feel like not
work will be looking at us in two three
years and two days us would look at us
in two or two three years and we'll be
like h that's not really work what
you're doing here.
>> Um so the the interesting thing though
is as you said in 2023 when you started
it was the very early days of agents but
you still had a thesis on how they would
impact work. Uh when you reflect back
where were you right and where were you
wrong? So I think we were deeply deeply
convinced that walk would be uh
incredibly disrupted by the technology
and I think that's something where we
were deeply right and I think we're
starting to be right only now at the at
a three years uh time scale it's only
the during the past couple months that
work has started to change like as a as
a dev the the way we work has completely
changed since November 2025 so it's been
just a couple months but the work has
like radically changed and I think we're
starting to see that in every other
functions and so that is that this
technology would be extremely disruptive
and and structuring for how we walk we
were pretty right there even if for
three years uh work was kind of the same
uh there were a lot of verticaliz
product on some particular pieces of
work there was uh two years ago it was
all about clean which was mostly about
asking questions and getting answers but
the shape of work was not necessarily
changing and so that's the part where we
were right in a sense is that this is
going to reinvent the way we work the
part where uh I was uh wrong
um I I think I was more of a believer of
an earlier plateau in a sense uh even if
even if that technology had plateaued
like a couple months ago we would still
have like like decades of deployment uh
and and innovation to do for it to be
adopted in every pieces of places where
we do work but uh but that that plateau
is not happening at all and it's still
uh if you look at the way uh we work is
being redefined uh right now it's it's
it's clearly not happening. So I think
that's maybe that part where I was uh
not as optimistic as I should have.
>> Yeah. I remember you telling me about
this plateau and I'm still waiting for
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's still not coming.
>> Yeah. So, uh, I want to make sure we
talk about the elephant in the room,
which is OpenAI and Anthropic are
giants. They move fast, they innovate,
and you're working right alongside like
right next to them. Um, how do you feel
about this?
>> Challenged, I guess. Uh, no, it's
obviously it's obviously challenging.
Um, we went for an horizontal platform
very early on. Uh again for the past
couple years everybody was saying
verticalize AI verticalize AI and there
were great arguments for that is that
when you have a verticalized AI product
your go to market is much simpler
because you know who to target you go
talk to them you wash rinse repeats uh
it's much more obvious when you have an
horizontal platform it's super well
documented uh we're not the first to do
that notion air tableable all of that
the go to market is much more finicky
because uh it's these platforms are
obviously extremely powerful but people
are Ah yes but what am I going to use it
for? I don't understand blah blah blah.
Walking in the as you said in the shadow
shadow is a bit uh harsh for us but uh
walking alongside [laughter]
>> sorry
>> obviously we're tiny tiny spec compared
to entropic and open and that's fine. Uh
walking uh is is both beneficial and
challenging. It's beneficial because
they uh they educate the markets uh very
efficiently and I think as we're seeing
today it's all about horizontal platform
like it feels like every product is
converging towards the same thing which
is some sort of uh new uh uh
productivity suites uh like Microsoft
has been doing or Google Drive has been
doing but for human agent interactions
and the product they used to be like
kind of pretty deep product pockets
those verticalized AI, but it seems like
everything is converging toward much
less depth in terms of product and much
more coverage in terms of where it
integrates and everything. So, it's a
bit like a in the three body problem
novel or or or TV show, you see that
thing that that kind of goes around the
earth, you almost don't see it, but it's
super powerful because it it it covers
it covers it entirely. So, I think we're
competing for that. There's a lot of
convergence in the uh in the product
space. I think in that in that in in
that aspect and there'll be some
different sensibilities in the way you
build that bubble of products uh which
will create differentiation. Uh we are
going a lot towards collaboration and
multiplayer AI. We I could spend minutes
and minutes about explaining why it
makes sense. We're also uh model
agnostic which I think is a is a very
interesting aspect of that and that's
something that the labs will not be able
to do. Uh if you think about buying your
product and your tokens uh at the same
place, it's like if you were uh building
a plant with machines in there and you
would buy the machines from the energy
provider and the plug would only work
with one energy provider and if you if
your energy provider was a Russian gas
would be in a pretty bad place right now
and you wouldn't be able to connect to
nuclear French nuclear makes no sense
and so I think it makes a lot of sense
for those product for the pro player to
be actually uh uh uh like agnostic in
terms of where you bring your
intelligence from.
>> So um you're model agnostic today and
you'll remain this way.
>> Yes, definitely. Uh I don't see us uh
it's funny because we're model agnostic
but at the same time uh at any point of
stage uh a lot of the usage goes towards
one provider but that's the point is
that at for given period of time that
provider is the best for doing work at
another given point of time this other
provider is the best for doing work.
that still changes very dynamically and
so we don't see any moment where we
would not be model agnostic.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. So when I think
about these giants and what they do to
the ecosystem of startup um they impact
them in many ways. One of them is the
funding markets. Uh, and there is a risk
that I think is an actual thing
happening which is they pull out the
oxygen uh out of the out of the funding
market because you're a VC and you'd
rather spend 1 billion in one lab than
uh spend 10 times 100 million in 10
different companies. Um, you've raised
in this environment. Uh, so you have
experience with this. How do you think
these giants impact the funding market?
Oh yeah, I think the so our race was uh
so we we were lucky to have a very easy
seed, very very easy seed. We were lucky
to have a very very easy series A and
the series B was the first time we raced
for real. It was complicated and hard as
it should be. Uh and uh and I think part
of that is because we're building from
France in a in a moment where it's not
it's less from the American perspective
slightly less fashionable than in 22 to
2023. Uh the other part is that I think
a lot of the energy in the market is
being absorbed by the labs. Indeed as
you said uh if I was a gross investors
that would make total sense for me to
put 1 billion in entropic get two
billion in six months and be done with
that. So uh uh hopefully those companies
will become public which will put them
in a kind of a no-go zone for VCs which
means that hopefully and they'll bring
liquidity to the market. So hopefully
they'll they'll get better. So I want to
go back to the being in the shadow of
French labs but before because you
talked about fundraising I want to talk
about this because one of the things
that when I talk about dust one of the
things I say is uh I think Sten and
Gabrielle his co-founder are some of the
most thoughtful founders I've seen
specifically on company building and
specifically on raising money. You could
have coming from OpenAI Stripe uh being
a second time founder you could have
raised at a crazy valuation and yet you
decided to raise at reasonable
valuations for your seed and then again
for your series A. How did you make this
decision?
>> I think it felt very natural to us. I've
seen some uh some friends gets a little
bit burned in the 20 20 21 years raising
a little bit too much. And I think there
is a true coffin corner for companies if
you raise too much and do not kind of
realize the potential of the money you
raised, you end up in a coffin corner
where the only outcome is a done run and
downturn, sorry. And there's a I mean I
I've never done that, but I think a
downturn is really really bad um uh in
many aspects. And so we knew from the
get-go that we wanted to focus at the
product layer. We had a mantra that is
still almost true. No GPU before PMF. We
raised our seed at a moment where uh it
was fashionable to raise money for
training. So everybody was running 100
million here, 200 million there and we
raised five five millions which seems
like silly but at the same time we knew
that we building on the at the product
layer we would not have been able to use
that money and it would have made no
sense and we much rather raise less uh
raise as a smaller valuation but be very
aggressive into building into that and
and creating the momentum and raising
and raising another run when we're ready
etc. So um that's that's the positive
view of that. The negative view of that
is that we're being a little bit too
French. Uh and I think you want to
strike the right tradeoff if you look at
I mean I'm always impressed by mistrol
in that perspective. I've seen uh so uh
I've met Arto Mench uh because I knew
Giaml very well when he decided to go
for building a company and he's
extremely smart but he knew nothing
about building a company like nothing he
was just a researcher no clue no
absolute no clue and the way he grew
into that uh kind of role of CEO of
European lab with all its imperfection
uh the fact that they managed to build a
company that is valued 12 billion is
extremely uh recommendable is extremely
impressive and there's there's in that
there's a bit of let's uh let's try to
kick the ball very aggressively. So I
think it's a fine line to to to to
consider uh you need to both aspects are
important and you need to find your your
it's a gray zone basically.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. you talked
about uh your series be uh maybe more
challenging because you're building in
France and it's true like I knew you
from your San Francisco days. So you
knew what San Francisco was like. You
built there, you hired there and yet you
decided to come back to France to build
the company. So like how did you make
this decision and what are your thoughts
today on having made this decision?
uh everything would have been easier
from a company building standpoint uh
going in the US uh from the get-go. I
think uh uh but it doesn't mean it being
easier doesn't mean that it's the right
thing to do. And I think we were really
I mean I'm I I was and Gabriel as well.
We really wanted to build something back
in France to uh because it was important
to us. There's a there's an aspect like
national preference or sovereignty to
it. Uh that's an additional constraint.
So that's uh that's one that you have to
be very uh very aware of. But I remain
convinced that it's when things are
going super well that's no problem. I
mean if you look at uh the lovable of
the world the uh Spotify of the world
everybody says SF SF SFF the funders
needs to be an SF and the same VCs they
[snorts] don't give a about the
localization of the lovable funders.
They could be in whatever country when
the things are working well the things
are working well nobody cares. So, uh,
it's an additional friction that you
take in for the a greater good maybe,
but it's a trade-off.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. Um, I want to
talk about the the labs. There is one
specific question I want to ask that may
be useful for the uh the audience, which
is we've seen the labs uh going after uh
new verticals. So example of this is
Enthropic uh going after Legora in the
um law space. Um so if you're a founder
and that happens to you, how do you how
should you think about it?
>> Yes. So so being verticalized great
advantage in terms of go to market being
verticalized made a ton of sense because
the models were not that good and so you
had to build a little bit of scaffolding
around that to make them useful. that
second value just disappears as the
models are getting better. So I think
the uh that doesn't mean that it it's
not a good idea to be verticalized but I
think almost we we're almost in a world
where intelligence is commoditized in a
way it's like um the old good SAS and
and and internet days it it feels to me
like the value will bring uh that
verticaliz product will have is if they
manage to create a different type of
mode which is probably the whatever
network effect you can find in your
vertical I think that will be the
because that's the thing that is
defensible even in place of perfect
intelligence coming in. So if you're
building a virtualized product uh in a
given industry, I do think that the
we're going back to the advices that we
used to receive in 2010 almost which is
network effects. Find a network effects.
Find a thing that is defensible because
you have a you have value coming from
having multiple users interacting with
the same platform. If you don't have
that, if it's just you're delivering
intelligence to one and intelligence to
other and there is no network effect, I
think in that case the defensibility is
changing.
>> Yeah. H how do you think about margins?
>> Uh margins are tough in those days.
Tough very tough. Uh
>> so and maybe the question is so you know
when you're a lab you're uh capturing
the margin at the token level and then
you build a product and you don't
usually add any margin on top of this
and so then you're pressured when you've
already been taken some of this margin.
So for you how do you think about
charging and what feels like the right
way to think about it? Yeah. So we used
to have a seatbased pricing which made
sense for three years which has become
because we wanted to favor usage and
value creation. So it was a blanket
price. You pay to use as much as you
want. Obviously over the past six months
the usage has exploded. The agent loops
are getting longer. Uh models are just
using more tokens all over the place and
so our margins have compressed and we
are in the middle of transitioning to a
cratebased pricing. I think that today
if you are building a at the product
layer there is no way around credit
based pricing uh because uh people want
to use more AI and they they'll just max
use as much as you give them and if you
have a a flat price that just doesn't
fly. So uh that is for kind of how to
think about pricing uh in terms of a
current product in AI. I think it's the
only way to maintain your margins
because if you have a flat price, the
margins get compressed and they'll keep
getting compressing at least under the
current conditions of models getting
better, people are using more and more.
Uh and then the question about
competition with the labs I mean there
are precedents where uh companies manage
to sell a product on top of an
infrastructure that captures the margins
and resell the same product at zero
price. many example box one passport. I
think there is obviously value in
creating a very well thoughtout, very
wellcraftrafted, very well
differentiated product and that will
enable to capture a fair amount of
margin still. And finally the third
piece is that hopefully we have the uh
the open source is catching up to some
extent and this this will create some
pressure on the labs on the margins. uh
if you think about it uh people I mean
when you look at the numbers and you can
look at the S1 from SpaceX as well uh
the labs are margins are are humongous
they're humongous so I'll try to hold it
in 10 seconds but uh if you if you think
about the cost of a model you can look
at the latency the latency is a measure
of the cost of the model because uh it's
for a given model infrastructure the
latency gives you the size of the model
the energy it consumes etc and if to
think about the latency of cloud code
versus GLM 5.2. It's roughly the same.
It's the maximum latency acceptable to
run in cloud code. And so you can
compare the margin, you can compare the
price of GLM 5.2 on base 10 or whatever
fireworks to the price you pay for an
equivalent frontier model with same
latency. And the difference is like
almost 9x. So that means that there is
very good chance that those labs are
margin kind of creating margin of
something like 70 or 80% uh serving us
those frontier models. So hopefully with
open source coming up it'll recalibrate
a little bit the market and those margin
will go down and you'll have a better
chance to compete even if they capture
still capture a lot of margin.
>> That makes sense. We're at time. I'll
still ask you one last question because
as I said you're very wise. So what is
there any last word of wisdom that you
want to share with this crowd? describe
being uh entrepreneurs or people that
want to be entrepreneurs are young in in
their career.
>> Yeah, I think the uh the only thing that
really matters at the end is uh uh uh
find the find the the the I mean it's
it's going to be sounds so typical but I
think it's really true. Find the the
thing you want to fix the vision you
have because building company is shitty
on a daily basis like shitty as hell.
there's some very highs and a lot of
lows and so if you don't have that thing
that you can really wake up in the
morning and say but this is the reason
reason why I'm doing it uh it's it's not
sustainable so that's the first thing if
you don't have that in your mind find it
today it's fine to reinvent it while you
build it's okay but find that thing that
will keep you uh uh driven towards an
objective despite all the glass uh
eating that is involved in the job
>> yeah I agree thank you so much and
please uh thank him as well. It was
amazing to have you.
>> [applause]