Title: The ML Technique Every Founder Should Know
Video ID: dC_3ys349bU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC_3ys349bU
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-01-22T15:01:12Z
Duration: PT27M11S
Views: 37559
Likes: 876
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 827

Description:
Diffusion is the foundational machine learning framework behind state-of-the-art AI image and video generation, including Sora, Midjourney and Google Veo. In this episode of Decoded, YC General Partner Ankit Gupta sits down with YC Visiting Partner Francois Chaubard to discuss how diffusion works, walk through a code sample, and explain why everyone training models should understand it.

Apply to Y Combinator: https://www.ycombinator.com/apply
Work at a startup: https://www.ycombinator.com/jobs


============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Welcome back to another episode of
decoded. Today, I'm sitting down with YC
visiting partner Francois Chahbar to
talk about one of the most important
topics in AI today, diffusion. Francois
has been doing computer vision since
2012 when he started in Feifei Li's lab.
And after a decade running Focal
Systems, he's currently back at Stanford
finishing his PhD working on
diffusion-based world models for AGI.
We're going to break down what diffusion
is, how it's evolved over the past
decade, and how it's used today.
>> [music]
>> Francois, thanks for being here. Thank
you for having me. Well, we just got
back from NeurIPS. We just spent a lot
of time talking to researchers and
thinking about all the newest models out
there. Um, I think we saw diffusion pop
up over and over and newer versions of
this type of uh approaches that are not
autoregressive LLMs. And so, I wanted to
talk to you about those today. So,
first, why don't we start by defining um
what is diffusion? Diffusion is a very
fundamental machine learning framework
that allows you to learn any P data, any
probability of data for any domain as
long as you have the data. So, you're
trying to learn some data distribution.
>> That's right. Now, in a sense, all LLMs
or all machine learning models are about
learning data distributions.
How does diffusion in particular, what
what stances it take or what approach
does it take to being able to learn
distribution?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think you can use
diffusion to to always do that. The
thing where it stands out in particular
is mapping from high dimensions to high
dimensions, especially in low data uh
regimes. So, say I only have 30 images
of Gary, which I actually have some code
that we're going to walk through.
>> Okay. Um, I only have 30 images of Gary
and again, we're in this 1,000 by 1,000
by three uh
uh dimensional space and I want to map
to another three three million
dimensional space with only 30 training
samples and I can still do it. And it's
pretty pretty powerful in that way.
Okay, cool. So, so you have this ability
to use relatively small amounts of data
compared to the dimensionality to learn
a P data.
>> That's right. Um, what's the what's the
basic process by which diffusion works?
Like, just walk through like at a very
high level and we'll walk through the
math a little bit later, but at a very
high level, how does this process
actually work? We take some sample of
the data, an image of Ankit, an image of
Gary,
and we just hit it with noise. And then
we just keep hitting it with noise and
we create this train of of noised up
images. It's very easy to create noisy
images, right? It's hard to create get
walk backwards and create from noise
images of you or Gary. And so, then we
flip it and then we try to have teach
the model to reverse that process. And
that's basically it. Okay, cool. So,
it's basically a
a noiser and a denoiser and the denoiser
is the model that you end up training.
>> Exactly. Yeah. You will uh you will
basically teach your force and and give
it uh noised up images and then have it
learn intermediate representations to
get to back to P data.
>> Cool. Nice. And what kind of stuff is
diffusion used for today? What are our
some applications that it's widely
deployed in? It's honestly surprising
how uh
uh applicable this process is. I think
the the uh original 2015 Joshua Sohl
Dickinson paper was on CIFAR-10, which
is just images. Um, and I think it's got
it has its roots in images, but it is
far uh uh more sprawling than just
images. As you've seen, we you know, uh
uh DeepMind just won the Nobel Prize for
doing this exact procedure on protein
folding.
Uh you can drive cars with this with the
diffusion policy paper, which is like an
insane result. Um, you can um
uh predict the weather. Um, there's
really no limit to the things that this
can do. Yeah, it's pretty incredible to
see. I mean, you have these image and
video generation models that seem to be
really advancing over the last few
years. Stable Diffusion is the one I
think many people have heard of and then
newer versions of it seem to be using
this as well. And then yeah, in the
world of life sciences that um my
company was in, too, I think we see this
newest generation of life sciences AI
companies are heavily investing in these
set of technologies. There's a model
called DiffDock that works really well
for predicting uh small molecule binding
to proteins. And then yeah, AlphaFold,
especially the newest AlphaFold version,
has used diffusion pretty heavily. It's
really cool to see the same core piece
of technology applied to so many
different domains.
>> Yeah, yeah. This class of models has
evolved over the years and, you know,
there's a whole slew of papers someone
could read. So, you should probably go
read the papers to learn all the
details. But maybe at a high level we
can try to trace out a few of the key
innovations that happened starting with
the paper you already mentioned that now
led to the newest versions of these
models. So, how would you map those out?
Like, what was the the first kind of
turn of the crank from this very
high-level diffusion process you uh
outlined? What was the first version of
that that started to work?
>> Yeah. So, I think the the 2015 original
Joshua paper
um is put up all the key pieces, all the
key components of modern diffusion. And
so, like now we're just playing with
different things. So, the scheduler, how
do we add noise, at what weight? Like,
that's a whole part that we can discuss.
What's the loss function? Should I
predict Should the the deep learning
model condition upon X of T predict uh
the actual data X of T minus one or
should it predict the error that was
just added to it? Uh or should it
predict the velocity, which is the error
divided by the time? Uh should it
predict the velocity of the the start
and the end? That's called flow
matching. There's so there's all these
different plays on what the loss
function is. So, in all of those, the
idea is still to do denoising.
>> Yes. Uh but the objective for each of
them is somewhat different from each
other. I mean, they're all pretty
closely related, whether it's basically
a delta between two things or the
previous step or the first step. How do
these all actually come together? But
these are series of papers that happened
one after another. Yeah, I think we just
kind of hill climbed on this
uh Fréchet inception distance metric.
That's kind of a kooky weird
um measure to see how good an image is.
Um, but we just kept getting better and
better and better on it by like doing
these little tricks. And so, like it
turns out that predicting the actual
data itself is actually quite hard and
like maybe predicting the error is
actually easier. And then predicting the
velocity was even easier than that. And
then predicting the uh global error
across the entire diffusion schedule is
even easier than that. And like just
kept finding easier and easier ways um
to to basically uh sample from noise to
data. And here, when you say easier,
were
was the ease largely driven by it was
mathematically simpler or it was easier
to implement and engineer or simpler to
reason about or what
>> What got easier, really?
>> It actually is that, too, but I didn't
mean it that way. What I actually meant
was it's easier for the model to learn.
Um, but it is also, and we'll go through
some coding examples, the math actually
got easier.
>> Yeah. And like the the the code got
smaller, which is actually opposite
oppositely true in uh most of uh the
case in most machine learning. You
actually things get more complicated. I
think we started with UNets and that was
like the predominant architecture. We
didn't really talk about architectures
that much, but then we got into these uh
diffusion transformers and like this
cross attention mechanism and things
like that. And so, um yeah, we just kept
getting better and better at reducing uh
FID. Hm, interesting. Should we dive
into some code examples?
>> Let's do it. Let's do it. I'll walk you
through I made about uh 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 of
these that I implemented um with varying
levels of success. But uh the the all
the structures are going to be the same.
So, the the Joshua paper, the
non-equilibrium uh thermodynamics paper,
uh you can see here here are some nice
images of Gary you can see here. Very
nice. This is the what I could find
online. Nice. Um and then
>> are images of Gary that you've
downsampled so that they're 1,000 by
1,000 or they're they're smaller, I
think.
>> by 64. 64 by 64. Yeah, they're really
small. This is a very small example.
Yeah. 64 and then I randomly augment it
to create more data. Great.
>> Um cuz I was I was lazy and that was
easier than uh downloading more images
of Gary.
>> [laughter]
>> Didn't want to didn't want to get
security called on you. Exactly. So, and
then wait, I implemented this diffusion
schedule and this is probably one of the
most important like of all the parts of
diffusion to that's difficult to
comprehend, I would say that the noise
schedule is actually the hardest part to
understand and that I really like I
struggled with myself. And so, if you
can see here, the noise that's added
from time step uh zero to T to 10 to 25
all the way to 100,
uh it's clearly destroying the
structure. Yes. And then we want to
train the model.
>> is basically random static. Exactly. And
we want to basically reverse this and
from here get to here and have the model
get to that point, get to this point,
get to my
etc.
And so, uh the interesting part, and
this is Joshua really you know,
uh implemented almost everything that we
needed for diffusion. Um, and there was
just a few little tweaks that were
missing and he didn't he didn't scale it
up. That's to me the the parts that um
uh were were were missing. And if you
see here the um
the noise schedule, so it would make
sense to me that I would have linear
interpolation between uh the image and
the noise. And I would start with like
one and zero, one being the image and
zero being the noise.
>> And you gradually add it.
But if you do that, it actually is
massively unstable because the
instantaneous amount of error that
you're adding is very small in the
beginning.
>> Right.
Like, on a relative basis.
>> basis. And then at the end, you have to
to destroy all that to get to complete
noise, you need to add a lot of error.
And so, like if you're a model and
you're just looking at this little chunk
of the noise schedule, then you have to
handle a lot of error in one step. And
on this side of of the schedule, you
need to handle such small amounts of
error. And what you actually want is
constant rel- like relatively constant
amount of error being introduced every
single time step.
>> Right. And that the the cumulative sum
of all that error actually ends up
looking like this
uh like this curve here. That's the uh
the pink curve.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And so, they called this a
beta schedule. Beta is the diffusion
rate, the rate of diffusion that I'm I'm
doing while I'm rolling this thing out
from time zero to time T, capital T. And
and so you can see here the the beta
schedule. So we we have usually have
some beta min to beta max. And then we
one minus that is the alpha. And you can
think about the beta as like how much
noise I'm adding at every time step. And
you think about the alpha as how much
signal is being retained. Yeah, being
retained. And then the term that really
matters is the alpha bar and these are
the weight weights that are used and it
has this kind of like one minus sigmoid
looking thing.
But that's basically the noise schedule.
And once you get that right, really this
this this part here then everything kind
of else just works. And then I trained
some model and then we can actually So
there what was the training objective
again? So you were adding this noise and
the training objective was to do what
exactly? The train in this case it's to
minimize the KL divergence between the
distribution the real distribution and
the distribution that I'm learning. And
so
I won't go through the code for this one
cuz it's a little bit hairier but you
can kind of see the result on these
generated images
after a 100 diffusion steps at inference
time. And you can see that the Frechet
inception distance is 222 which is like
extremely high today. Like today modern
modern day would be like maybe like
eight or 10 or something. And what's
interesting here is I mean you kind of
scroll through it there but it's and you
mentioned it there's quite a lot of code
that it actually takes to do that KL
divergence base loss. I suspect that in
these later models you're going to show
it it gets significantly simpler. So I'm
just mentally noting that cuz I suspect
there's going to be interesting contrast
to draw between these two. Yeah, so the
next one I would like to show is flow
matching which is it's just so beautiful
and simple.
And this was out of meta
Yarin Lipman
where he basically said we don't need a
lot of this stuff. What we need to do
forget the if you think about the
noising process as being this like
I start from data. I randomly sample a
vector
of noise and I just go in this
direction. And then I do it again. I go
in this direction. I do it again. I go
in that direction. I go in this
direction that direction. And then I'm
here at noise. And then you have to
teach the thing to go in the exact
opposite path. And you have to do this
very circuitous path. And so at test
time it's actually quite expensive. You
have to do We've all waited for you know
chat GPT or to or midjourney to like
make an image and takes a while. What
it's doing is like a thousand calls to
the model again and again iterating
through to get to that point of your
data. Instead And like intuitively it's
like okay we're doing the circuitous
path but surely there's a shorter path
between those two. And so that's what
makes flow matching so cool to me at
least is that they said forget all of
that intermediary results. There is a a
velocity a global velocity between the
noise and the data and it's just this
direction. It's just this straight line.
And I don't care where you are go in
that line. Wherever you are you're over
here go in that line and teach it to go
in that line. And that's what flow
matching does. And so I'll show you the
code
and it's really quite simple. It really
is quite simple. And so this pretty
cool. So
here you go. The
you basically have like 10 15 lines of
code that is the most powerful machine
learning procedure ever. So I I have
some data I an image of Gary.
I have some noise that I I I some
isotropic Gaussian noise that I sample
from.
There's some time that I'm I'm trying to
index into in the diffusion schedule.
And I'm and I create XT which is the
image at the noised up image that's
somewhere between extremely noisy and
not noisy at all. And and that's
basically just this sampling procedure.
It's T times data
plus one minus that times noise. That's
right. And then I compute the velocity
which is independent of the time. I
don't care where you are it's just the
global this global velocity which is
this the noise minus the data and then
it I return that back to my training
loop which is the shortest amount of
code training loop [laughter] I've ever
written which
it's five lines of code.
I have my batch. I have some time. I
sample from that function I just
explained before.
And then I have my prediction from the
model. I feed it in this some
element
some noised up image somewhere between
lots of noise and little noise is X of T
let's call it. And I just want it to
predict the velocity that I want to go.
And this is also really powerful cuz
here you know you have model abstracted
but that model can be any model. So you
can put in whatever the relevant model
is for your distribution whether that's
a protein model for proteins or if it's
an LLM for text or an image based model
for images that is a very clean
abstraction as long as you can then
predict this velocity and then move in
that direction. That's right. This code
here has nothing to do with images. It
could be weather data. It could be you
know stock market data. It could be
trajectories from a robotics in a
teleops setup.
It could be proteins. It could be DNA.
It doesn't really matter. It's all the
exact same code.
And so and then also we haven't talked
about the architecture. So like this
model here could be anything you want it
to be. Like it could be a RNN. It could
be a
U-Net which is typically you know
traditionally is. And and modernly they
use these diffusion transformers doing
this cross attention mechanism. And so
it can be whatever you want.
But it's all that is independent from
whether or not you're doing flow
matching or not. I think this is like a
really profoundly
interesting result in that especially
this
I think we often assume as models have
gotten more sophisticated that they
become less accessible for people to
understand but this is quite literally
10 lines of code
>> [laughter]
>> that explains essentially all of the
most important kind of mathematical and
fundamental foundations of the models
that we all see as generating basically
like magical AI results on our phones.
Of course there's lots of engineering
how you scale them up you know that that
model could be a 100 billion parameter
transformer. Data centers you know GPUs.
Yeah 100%. So it's the engineering
that's the really hard part there but a
lot of the basic machine learning math
is actually quite straightforward.
That's right.
And so there's a bunch of these like
tangent fields to diffusion that all
have some different interpretation on
what's actually happening but it's all
the same exact math. And most people
learning diffusion actually get quite
confused because if you talk to
some
you know probabilistic graphical model
people they'll say oh this is a
probabilistic graphical model and what's
actually this is a hidden Markov model
and what we're doing is we're learning
this like Markovian thing or whatever.
It's like okay fine but like it's just
noise minus data.
>> [laughter]
>> And like you should just show that
first. And then like if you think about
it from like a physics perspective and
and there's all this stat mech people
that have that interpretation.
There's a whole bunch of these different
interpretations. I think it's it gets a
little bit confusing.
And then the whole stochastic
differential equation people like
thinking about that this is an SDE. And
I think that's all fine and it probably
is helpful to think about but in terms
of teaching it it's actually quite quite
simple which is powerful.
So if we go back to here
you can see that this just literally
predicting the velocity. Your goal is to
have the model predict You're minimizing
the loss between predicted velocity and
velocity.
>> velocity. That's it. And that's super
stable
and it's it's really clean. And then at
test time for the
physics people this is like a Euler step
kind of thing that you're doing where
you call the model a bunch of times
and you iteratively refine. So back to
the hill climbing that we were talking
about I'll grab some random
noise here X and I just do and I call
basically reverse that that
noising process to denoise denoise
denoise and It's literally Euler's
method. Like you're you're using the
velocity to point in the direction you
want to in the direction and just keep
going keep going keep going until you've
done the number of steps. The one thing
that I really don't like about diffusion
as it's done today is that I can't keep
calling it
beyond if I only trained on 100
diffusion steps in my diffusion
schedule. If I change that at test time
it doesn't work. And so you can't like
oh I want to even better so I'll call it
even more. That doesn't You can't I've
tried it it doesn't work. There's
various tricks people try there but
yeah. Yeah. And so like the there's
games played that is actually quite
exciting. All the expense
>> But what I was trying to be clear here
here you're saying that's not relevant.
It's not relevant. In this type of model
you don't have this time dependency.
Well so you do. So at this time if you
change for example the number of steps
if you double it. Let's say that and you
expect to get even higher resolution
images. It actually will just turn into
like white. Like it actually just like
doesn't work at all.
So you can't step beyond number of steps
that was trained. That's an important
detail. There are tricks that people are
doing to try to compress that
representation. So like if at train time
I train for 100 steps and at test time I
want to do 10 steps. Then what you can
do is you can do distillation into the
model to try to have the 10 step model
learn the 100 step models thing. But
then you still got to train with 10
steps. And so like if you're training
with with X steps you have to be using X
steps at test time. I see. Interesting.
You've talked about this concept of a
squint test why don't you define the
squint test for a second. Tell me a
little about where this comes from and
then I'd be curious to hear how you
think about diffusion models in the
context of general intelligence broadly.
Yann LeCun has this like interesting
lecture where he talks about
our discovery of flight and that we
didn't need
flapping wings. We kept trying to mimic
a bat
and how that was a waste of time. And
to that I say you're 100% right. However
we did need two wings. Then you look at
the Wright brothers' original plane and
you squint and you look at a bird,
you're just like, "Hmm, while we have
helicopters and we have jets and things
like that and rockets, like we we got
there eventually." And so there's many
elements in the set of things that can
achieve flight and they have different
pros and cons.
And there are many elements in the set
of things that can achieve intelligence.
We are the only existence proof of it at
all. And like I'm sure there will be
more elements in the set and maybe LLMs,
broadly speaking, can get there. But if
I squint and I look at LLM setup, which
I I see this, you know, monolithic stack
transformers, the same thing, stack
stack stack, and there's three stages of
training. We do this pre-train,
you know, SFT, you know, post-train, and
then no learning at at all beyond that.
And it produces exactly one token at a
time.
>> Right, so in order to token. In order to
token at a time and it never goes
backwards. And then you look at a brain,
massively massive amounts of recursion.
You have one learning procedure the
whole time. You have these two lobes
that with a corpus callosum that between
them that's kind of going back and forth
like this and we think and then I
definitely don't think in one token at a
time. When I write code, I don't write
one little character at a time. I never
go backwards. And I kind of like I'm
going backwards, I'm recursively
improving. I'm going backwards again and
again. I'm I'm thinking in concepts.
>> There's just like dynamic process that's
emitting concepts and then higher-level
higher-level concepts and then
lower-level manifestations of them.
>> I'm sure that may be happening inside
the LLM, but it's like it's almost like
stuck. It can't do more than in one step
even though if it might want to cuz it
has to is the way that we we trained it.
>> Right, like it might have all that in
the LLM, but then it's it's sort of
bottleneck ultimately by all the emits.
Action space is one is one
>> token at a time. And so I think that
that's where I think about diffusion,
there's like a two main things that
diffusion gives me. It doesn't get me
all the way to to pass my squint test,
but it gives me two things that I for
sure the brain is doing. Number one, the
entire all of biology and nature
leverages randomness. Randomness is
good. And what is diffusion doing? It's
leveraging randomness. If you give me
data and I noise it up and from that I
can learn about the data. And like is
the can the brain add noise to input
data? Absolutely. Like absolutely.
Neurons are massively random.
This log-normal distributions, spike
patterns, and things like that. And the
other one is this emission of one thing
at a time versus thinking in concepts
and then decoding into a big chunk of
text and thought and revisioning of the
previous thoughts and things like that.
And so I think diffusion gives me both
of those things for sure. People
probably heard of stable diffusion as a
very common application of this. People
it's an image generation model that was
pretty widely available for the last few
years.
What people may not be so aware of is
all the other ways that diffusion is
used in the last few years in products
that people are widely using. So what
are some of the areas on which diffusion
is most widely accessible? Yeah, it's
really any mapping from very
high-dimensional P data to very
high-dimensional action spaces or P data
that you may want to map to. And so I
mean, yeah, of course everyone knows
generating images cuz we've done
Midjourney and things like that
and even more modern versions of that
with Sora and VEO and Flux and SD3 now
and things like that.
And we've generating videos which is
just images stable together
and and video gen and image gen and
things like that. However, there's so
many more applications that now we're
seeing that's the most exciting part in
my my view of all the new applications.
And so whether or not you're
now creating sentences, I mean diffusion
LLMs was one of the biggest topics that
we saw at NeurIPS.
Whether it's continuous diffusion LLMs
or discrete diffusion LLMs.
That's it's writing code now.
It's creating proteins. I mean DeepMind
has won the Nobel Prize for that. There
is robotic policies, this diffusion
policy thing which I think might
actually be one of the biggest
uses of it and will result in like
robots actually working and Rosie the
robot actually working.
There's weather forecasting for the
GenCast.
It's the most accurate weather
forecasting system in the world.
It's really anything. Even like I
mentioned Harrison working on the
diffs, diffusion for failure sampling.
Just like sampling from for failures and
like bad things that could happen. We
can do that as well. So a lot of the the
products where we see people actually
using AI, especially for things other
than just text-based chat, a lot of them
are using diffusion, especially on
images, videos, increasingly now things
like code, the life sciences. So yeah,
pretty pretty wide birth of things.
>> Yeah. In fact, I would say the only two
holdouts right now where state of the
art is not diffusion,
diffusion has eaten all of AI except
two. AR LLMs still are outperforming
and gameplay and things like AlphaGo.
And so MCTS is still state of the art
for those types of things. And so we
haven't seen diffusion really take step
in those two fold those two areas, but
more research is needed. So to bring the
conversation to a head now, how should
people think about this research area?
Either as researchers contributing to
the field or as founders looking to
build a new product?
Yeah, I mean I would think about maybe
this falls in two camps. If you're
training models yourself
or if you're using models and and you
know, not in the business of training
models. If you're in the business of
training models, I would seriously look
at diffusion. I don't care what your
application is. You should be looking at
this procedure
even if it's just to get a latent space
that you can then train off of. And so
there's no application in machine
learning that I I don't think you should
be heavily looking at diffusion
procedures
as a fundamental piece of of your
training loop.
In the in the case of people who are are
not training models, I would just like
update your prior on how good these
things are getting. And if you just look
at in the last 5 years on how good image
generation got from Midjourney when it
first came out to VEO and Sora and Flux
and SD3 now, it's like it's like 1,000
times better, right? The answer was just
scale it up. And that takes time and
that takes money and all those things
and data. And now you apply that to
proteins. You apply that to DNA. You
apply that to robotics policies. A
self-driving car. I mean it is
skate to where the puck's going to go.
All these things are going to work and
we're watching it happen. It may cost
money and time and you know, those kinds
of things, but those are those are
solvable things. Those are tractable
problems that we can go solve. And also
the core procedure of diffusion is
getting better. That's another major A
lot simpler. A lot simpler and it's
getting like it's we're just working
better. And so skate to where the puck's
going to go. Bet that Rosie the robot
will work in people's homes. Bet that
the the protein folding is only going to
get better and now we're going to apply
that to DNA and all these other
metabolomics and things like that.
>> We we see founders develop new models
for robotics or for text generation or
for video using diffusion. Um and we see
founders who are using all of these
methods coming from other places build
companies on top of them. And it seems
like there's this whole new wave of
companies that can be built on either
end of this now. Right. I think it's
going to redefine the entire economy.
Thanks so much for joining us. We're
going to keep digging in on topics
related to machine learning research
like diffusion. Can't wait to see you at
the next one.
>> [music]