Title: Recursion Is The Next Scaling Law In AI
Video ID: DGtUUMNYLcc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DGtUUMNYLcc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-05-01T14:00:32Z
Duration: PT37M53S
Views: 16729
Likes: 367
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1161

Description:
A 7-million parameter model outperforming models a thousand times its size on tasks like ARC Prize. That's what recursive reasoning unlocks.

In this episode of Decoded, YC's Ankit Gupta and Francois Chaubard break down two recent papers on recursive AI models, HRMs and TRMs, that are achieving state-of-the-art results with a fraction of the parameters of today's largest models.

They explain why standard LLMs hit a fundamental ceiling on certain reasoning tasks, how recursion at inference time 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Welcome back to another episode of
decoded. Today, I'm back with my CV
visiting partner Francois Chopard to
talk about one of the most interesting
recent trends in AI research, recursion.
Specifically, we're going to talk about
how we can improve a model's reasoning
performance by using recursion at
inference time, [music] rather than by
just making the model bigger and bigger.
There were two papers that made the
power of this approach really clear in
2025. One on hierarchical reasoning
models or HRM, and another on tiny
recursive models, TRM.
>> [music]
>> Francois, thanks for joining us. Um, can
you tell us a little bit about these two
models and what was so interesting about
them? Sure. I guess, um, to set up a
little bit of a foundation, uh, you
already did an amazing lecture on RNNs
and LMs in one of the previous videos,
so I won't overdo it, but just to give
the cliff notes, um, an RNN is just a
model that you, uh, recursively call
again and again and again, um, on
itself. And we were very much in the
belief that this was required to get to
AGI. Um, peak RNN use was probably until
2016 with Alex Graves, um, NeurIPS
keynote which is just fantastic, and all
his his his his adaptive compute time
work. So, this is about 10 years ago
people were working on these models.
This was in the era of LSTMs and LSTMs
with attention. Yeah, and, uh, depending
which professors you talked to, uh,
before attention was invented.
>> Yes. Yes, totally. [laughter] Yeah. Um,
and, uh, and I think what really was the
the the limiting step on, uh, RNNs in
general was a thing called backprop
through time, where you have to you roll
out the model, and then to update the
weights you need to approximate the
gradient and you step back back back and
you keep rolling out. And as the the
model, um, gets, uh, bigger and bigger,
and as you roll out for more and more
steps, then you have all these, uh,
accumulation of errors and the gradient
gets noisier and noisier, and then it
could just kind of stop to work.
>> you have these like vanishing or
exploding gradient problems. And it's
because if you have an input with 20
steps, you're like multiplying these
matrices 20 times, and that causes And
we're talking about getting context
length of like a million or like a
billion. And so like it's not even just
20, it's like a billion. And even worse,
you have to retain the activations at
every single step. And so like if this
were happening in your brain, you would
need like a million copies of your brain
at every single activation so that I can
backprop through it. There's tricks
around this that you can you can do and
you can do um
a gradient checkpointing and things like
that to reduce that issue, but then
you're just like trading off memory for
um wall clock time and and compute.
Right. So now if you contrast that with
um LLMs, the ones that people are widely
using, these while at face value they
appear to be similar, at training time
they're doing basically this one
one-shot feedforward process for every
input, right? The the LLM, the
transformer block, can take all of the
inputs in parallel. It's not actually
iteratively going over them one at a
time at train time, so you don't have
this
needing to store tons of activations
problem or this giant vanishing
gradients problem. Yeah, exactly. Like
it it's actually like all happening in
time in one shot, magically. And that
was like the the trill or lower triangle
trick that kind of happens, this causal
mask that occurs. And so you actually do
all all time steps in one shot, and you
forward pass a feedforward model on all
time steps in one shot, and you
backwards in one shot, and it's amazing
for train time in terms of like wall
clock.
It requires a lot of flops, and it still
requires a lot of the memory. You still
need it there, but you don't have the
vanishing gradient issue. Um and what
you actually paid for that you have to
give up is this latent reasoning thing
and this compression [snorts]
in the time direction. There is no
compression in LLMs. Every single decode
that I do, I still have to retain the
entire, you know, Shakespeare novel just
to like decode a little bit. And in
RNNs, you don't have to do that. It's
all compressed in this hidden state that
you kind of roll out. Wait, so so let's
talk about that in a little bit more
detail. Like
you you refer to this
um
inherent reasoning ability. You know,
many people think about LLMs as doing
reasoning, and we're going to talk about
that a little bit later. But, help me
understand where you see the biggest
limitations in LLMs reasoning ability or
is in terms of what the model does in an
actual forward pass? Yeah. And so, um I
guess we go back to chat GPT-2.
GPT-2 was this uh landmark uh
architecture and paper that um basically
was just get next token next token next
token, and it kind of worked. And like,
we just watched val loss go down,
perplexity goes down, like the model
just is more performant, looks better,
starts to make some Shakespeare that
actually sounds somewhat plausible.
>> Right. And then we have to get these
things to reason and to actually solve
some really hard problems. And um and
I've done extensive experiments on this,
but like if you take uh for example,
sort. You get you have infinite amounts
of unsorted lists, and you give it
sorted lists.
You keep feeding it to the model. It
should work, right? Um it's actually
impossible for the model to map from
unsorted list to sorted list. If I have
>> In a one-shot, basically
>> In a one-shot basis. It's like it's like
literally that we know a theoretical
lower bound that um for uh comparison
sort, you can't do better than n log n
uh steps. And if I have a list that's 31
uh uh
uh
uh characters or elements long, and my
transformer is 30,
I run out of steps to do comparisons.
It's not possible for me to like do all
the steps that is needed to be done. Um
in HRMN TRM, they use uh Sudoku as an
incompressible problem. Similarly, and
so are mazes, those are incompressible
problems. Rolling sum, incompressible
problem. So, when you mentioned the
sorting algorithm, when I think back to
my algorithms class from college, the
one way you could get faster than n log
n in a sorting algorithm is if you had
some access to an external memory cache.
If you had some tape you could write to,
then you can actually do faster than n
log n by basically selectively putting
things onto this memory. And I suspect
that's, you know, a key limitation of
these LLMs in that because there's no
external memory tape inbuilt into the
model, you lose certain performance
possibilities in terms of how fast you
can go. That's right. And so, I guess
like it it radix sort would be like the
most common one. You had like you you
depending on on this the number of
buckets that you have, you can kind of
get from n log n to order n. You can't
get less than n. You have to touch all
the the elements. You're Sorry, you have
to do that. And if you run out of
uh
um layers in in transformer layers in
your uh neural network, then you ran out
of chances to do that. Yeah, so this is
just like a turn This is like going back
to like Al- Alan Turing now and like a
Turing machine, right? Like what's So,
what's the analogy there exactly that we
should think about in terms of LLMs I
guess not quite satisfying how you think
about a Turing machine. Yeah, so if we
let's just talk about like chat GPT-2,
GPT-2 the the original like no bells and
whistles,
um it's just a feedforward model. And
so, it's just forward passing one step.
And to Taking an input, creating a bunch
of outputs. And the Sudoku case, um
if I have 50 different uh
sequential steps. And it's provable that
I can only do one given this
information, then and I have this many
layers, then that's all I can do. And
the cheat this the cheat is that the
chain of thought. And so, it's
completely true that at test time, they
are
uh Turing complete and you can simulate
all Turing computable functions at test
time. But how do you get it to learn it?
You need to train it. And that's where
uh unless you're training it on
human-labeled uh uh traces, uh for which
there's a lot of problems like the
Millennial Prize Problem, we don't have
the trace for it. Right. So, [laughter]
we'd love to have the trace for it. Does
it exist?
Totally. Makes sense. Okay, so with that
context in mind now, let's talk about
these two papers cuz I think that sets
up a lot of
the the the contrast we're going to draw
between these papers and the models that
people are maybe more used to. So, let's
talk about HRMs first. Um walk me
through a little bit about
how this model works and some of the
intuition behind it.
Sure. So, um the the the
this is directly in the lineage of RNNs.
There's not that much novel from like
the RNN standpoint, uh at least in my
opinion. They do have this idea of uh
you know, from a
inspired by the brain where I have like
um there's different parts of of the
brain that operate at different
frequencies. There's some that that
operate at really high frequency, which
is on the low level of the hierarchy,
some that operate in a really uh low
frequency, which is the higher level of
the hierarchy, and the interplay between
those things is really interesting. So,
this is like literally in the human
brain there's some like bio inspiration
here, which is that like you have like
different waves running at different
frequencies at different parts of the
brain or something like that. Cool. And
um and I guess that interpret that's one
interpretation of it of the way that
they they're talking about um you know,
classifying these these hierarchies of
frequencies. And the way the most
interesting part, at least for me, is
the way that they train the neural
network. You take in some X, some input,
um whether it's a incomplete Sudoku
puzzle, uh a maze, or an Arc Prize
challenge, um you uh
do TL steps with the L the the lower
level uh
module, then you do go to go to H, you
do that um
TH times, and then you have uh N sub
outer refinement steps. Yeah. So, you
basically are like running through the
input with a given
uh
matrix with with a given transformation
repeatedly on it. And you're doing that
through two levels of refinement, and
then basically running that process
several times. Yes. So, there's exactly
three levels of recursion occurring
here. There's the low level, there's the
high level, and then there's the outer
refinement steps. And we're calling it
recursion cuz it's the same weights that
are being applied repeatedly. We're not
changing the weights in between these
steps. Exactly right. You get to recurse
on on the L net uh L TL times, you
recurse on the TH and the TL this looped
recursion TH times, and then you do n
sub you do this whole outer refinement
step n sub times. Cool. And so, what's
the basic intuition for
why that works? Like why does that
produce an effective paper result? And
what even were the results that this
paper showed? Yeah. And so, I mean this
got state of the art
on art prize one and two.
This is a only a 27 million million
parameter model that was only trained on
art prize. So, it's like a thousand
posts or something like that. Like
puzzles basically.
>> a thousand tasks which is extremely
small. There is no pre-training at all.
This is starts from like literally
tabular rasa weights and it can
outperform at that time. If we go back,
you know, we had 03 if you remember back
way back when. [laughter]
And it and it 03 gets zero.
Literally zero and this got like
something like 70% on art prize one at
least
at the time which was just a huge
breakthrough. And so, kind of the the
way you can kind of think this is like
variable scoping. And so, like if I have
like
you know, three nested functions, I
guess the first
the lowest level function has like
scoped variables which they'll call zl
which is the carry that inits to zero. A
latent variable basically.
And like traditional RNN literature they
would call this the hidden state. The
low level hidden state. And I get to
recurse recurse recurse and then I pass
back that zl back to the the outer
scoped function, the higher level one. I
let that one do one iter. It goes back
and calls the lower level again. It does
this whole thing in a third
outer loop which is called the outer
refinement step. Okay, but when you
describe it like that, it seems like it
would have the same backprop through
time problem that you would have with
RNNs. And I think they came up with
clever trick to basically get around
that. So, like what was that trick that
they figured out?
>> And this is really the the crux of the
paper that like differentiates it in my
opinion in the literature is they
instead of
doing what Alex Graves did in all of his
papers from Neural Turing Machines to
adaptive compute time
to a differential neural computers is he
always back propped through all of the
recursion steps. And he was limited by
back prop through time so he could only
make the model so big. You have all
these issues, vanishing gradients, etc.
etc. And what they do is they they kind
of have this DEQ
method of doing fixed point iteration.
It feels like deep equilibrium models.
Yeah. deep equilibrium learning
where if I
take a batch
and this is this is completely
counterintuitive as a computer vision
person cuz you'd never do this, but it
actually does make sense and I'll
explain why. If I take a batch
of like ImageNet or CIFAR-10 and I
forward pass through the model
and I get some loss and I back prop and
I update the weights.
I would go get a different batch for the
next one.
But what they do instead is they
actually do that 16 times. And so and as
you do that you actually can see the
change in your residuals get less and
less and less. And why it actually makes
sense is because when in the RNN case
the ZL and the ZH which are the carry
the task carry
>> The hidden states. The hidden states
start out at zeros. Those are zeros,
then we go through this whole loopy
recursion three the the the the at least
the two loops the two lower loops T the
the TL and TH steps and then I
back prop just through the two modules
just once and I don't recurse all the
way back. I do a stop grad. I stop right
there. And then there's a huge residual
and then I don't reset ZL and ZH. I do
it again at a different point in the
carry or hidden variable space
space.
And so you one can actually look at it
as like a different batch every time
even though it's the same exact X's.
Yeah, like the way I kind of think about
it is like the the 16 or whatever that
you're
re- recursing over
it's like constructing a mini batch not
from different inputs but from like
different memory states basically. It's
like across this
hidden or carry memory access basically.
And and that math holds and it works. It
follows DEQ directly in the event that
the ZL and the the delta and ZL and the
delta and ZH
go to zero.
Mhm. Which it actually does doesn't do.
And so we'll get to TRM but Alexia
basically shows that it's just not the
case and you can't actually apply this
math. Um and that's
why it's working that's not sufficient
support for why it's working. We
actually don't know why it's really
working. Um and she figures out that you
actually uh can
backprop through all the way to the deep
recursion which we're going to get into
TRM in a second. Um and that actually
improves performance much much more.
Interesting. Okay, so before we get into
TRM yeah on you know on this paper you
know I think there's a bunch of
different ways people have looked at
this right in terms of
how they came up with it and then why
this may or may not be working. One is
the sort of bioplausibility argument.
Now as you know I'm usually not
super keen on these. You know I think
machine learning tends to have a long
history of people starting with
bioplausible arguments and then
realizing that there's some variant of
them that seems highly bio implausible
that actually works better. I think you
have example of lots of that sort of
thing.
>> the classic the first deep deep learning
paper that started this whole
craziness is AlexNet and and in AlexNet
there's actually this funny little thing
called like local receptive activation
or depression or something like that
where like once this activation fires
then like I have this like you know a
refractory region or something like
that. It actually doesn't work at all.
And like it didn't work and you didn't
need that and then VGG came out and said
get rid of all that just go deeper and 3
by 3 conv and it actually just like
outperforms dramatically. Right. And so
like this is like always the maybe you
need to do it to get accepted into
NeurIPS or something. Yeah sure totally
totally yeah. You're definitely the
expert here but what do you consider to
be bio plausible and what's not? Well, I
think that a lot of machine learning
literature has overlapped a lot with
people working in neuroscience. And I
think it is very natural for us to ask
questions about how does our brain work
cuz our brain is like an incredible
instrument that does a ton of computing,
obviously, and does it in a very
shockingly efficient manner, it seems
like. And so, a lot of machine learning
research has for a long time sought
analogue from how we think to understand
our brain to work and try to encode that
in various machine learning systems. So,
from the very basic concept of what a
neural network is, it's called a neural
network cuz we think it's some basic
model for what a neuron is, how certain
activation functions work are meant to
be inspired by certain biological
premises.
>> theme?
The thing about them is that often we
use bio plausibility to inspire us to
come up with ideas,
but we end up veering away from the bio
plausible to something adjacent to them
that is likely bio implausible, but that
seems to work better. So, it runs better
on a GPU. Exactly. It runs better on a
GPU, it's more efficient in some
capacity that is relevant to how we
actually encode it in a computational
system. So, I find thinking about bio
plausibility fun and interesting and
it's definitely a great way to inspire
us to think about new things, but I tend
to not be bounded by bio plausibility as
when I think about what machine learning
systems we should prioritize working on
or think are particularly exciting other
than as, you know, an interesting
scientific launching point for a deeper
exploration. I think the the version of
this that I find more compelling is
actually that original discussion we
were having around automata theory,
basically, and and honestly just
actually like fundamental data
structures and algorithms theory, which
is that if you're running a complex
algorithm, having access to sort of a
memory cache is actually
very useful for being able to run that
algorithm efficiently. And I kind of
think of this set of hidden states or
carry as
akin to a Turing machine tape or akin to
the radix sort
memory bank, where you can basically
train a model to use this memory cache
in an intelligent way in a single
forward pass so that you can get a more
efficient time operation that would
otherwise require some sort of more
complicated reasoning. Yeah, I think
that a point I wanted to make earlier is
that like we did this COT stuff and this
tool use thing as ways to get beyond the
the
the the the in limitations of of GPT-2.
And so the way that we get you can
actually have done this experiment. You
can actually if you give me infinite
amounts of
unsorted list and sorted list if I have
can do chain of thought and I can do
every single step and teach it to do
every single step, then I can actually
get it to do to do sort and become a
Turing machine at test time.
And similarly, an even cheaper one that
is much easier to do is you teach it and
you say, "Hey, there's this Python
function called sort. Just call the
function.
>> the function. Like that's the easiest
thing to do and you don't need backprop
at all. And so those are the two hacks.
Now, well, Francois, this is solved.
Like we're done, right? No, because I
needed to know what sort was. What
happens if we didn't know what merge
sort
>> The chain of thought is not going to
inherently discover sorting from first
principles. It's it's finding it from
our historical knowledge of everything
it's trained on. Yeah, I mean this is
like the the Demis had this whole thing
about like the ultimate test is the
Einstein test. Like go back to 1911 and
then like have it rebuild all the
physics up until now. Similarly, let's
just pretend that we only had bubble
sort. We knew other no other sort
system. If you chain of thought it on
all the bubble sort input and output, it
will only do bubble sort. In fact, it
won't even do bubble sort that well.
Like
>> [laughter]
>> So this is the best situation and then
the tool use of course it can only know
bubble sort. I want to get to merge
sort. How do I discover merge sort? And
I think the the interesting thing just
to
emphasize here cuz it may not have been
extremely clear is there already exists
some type of recursion that people are
used to in LLMs which is chain of
thought we mentioned earlier. But that
is a recursion that's happening in the
token space of the models outputs, not
inherent to the model itself. And that's
sort of the fundamental limitation is
that the model can only do
a feed forward one shot output and then
we basically just have this hack that if
you keep letting it output things then
it can read its outputs and do somewhat
intelligent seeming things with it but
it seems sort of be upper bounded by the
data that we feed it that you know the
labs are very hungrily buying right now
and not the sort of like inherent
underlying recursive reasoning. Yeah, so
in both cases both hacks to solve this
in COT and tool use um you're bounded by
the bounds of human knowledge. In the
event it's outside the set of human
knowledge then like
you're kind of SOL. And so that's that's
one. The other you make a great point
about discrete versus latent space um
reasoning in
uh a discrete it can only output the
carry in the case of LLM's has to be
snapped back to some discrete token
space. And in the case of RNN's in
general they remain in this uh
continuous latent space which is much
higher dimensional. If you give me like
a tape that's this long and you cut it
up into 10 buckets like versus all the
possible values
>> Right, exactly. Yeah. it's much more
expressive to being continuous space.
But we can't train it that way cuz we
actually you know cuz you're inhibited
by backprop through time largely. Um and
this is why this paper is so exciting.
Okay, so before we then go over to the
TRM paper um
let's just summarize here. What matters
most from the HRM paper that we should
take away before we transition and
contrast it with the TRM paper?
Yeah, I think that the the number one
piece uh to take away is this outer
refinement loop. The outer refinement
loop scales and there's a a great uh
breakdown. Um basically the the Sapien
uh
authors
which huge kudos for this paper cuz
there's so many innovations in this
paper
didn't really do like a scaling
ablations on every single one of the
inputs but this guy Constantine at
Francois company India actually did and
it's this amazing breakdown that he put
on posted on YouTube that you can go
check out but basically the main
takeaway is that the outer final loops
is the main
beneficiary is the is the is the main
reason why these things work so well
which
Alexia basically takes the she found I
think in parallel and and scales up and
and shows that you can get rid of a lot
of all this other stuff. All right, so
like a lot of machine learning the
follow on paper is basically delete 75%
of the first paper as we've often done
in videos here and keep the magic
basically. So okay, so so what's the
magic then? Like what's the part that
actually matters in terms of what stays
in the TRM paper and let's now contrast
the core architectural differences
between these two papers. Yeah, so I
think that I guess if I break it down
into
two major things is this outer
refinement loop thing is really great
and works really well
and that this like
truncated backprop through time which is
backprop through time except I truncate
at some time earlier point called T T
back T equals 1 is actually is
completely sufficient and so truncated
backprop through time T equals 1
completely sufficient and that's very
counterintuitive.
>> Which is what HRM found.
HRM found and TRM does a little bit
further rather than going through just
one call to the H net and the L net it
actually goes through one full recursion
loop. So if I do it 16 times I just go
back through one time and that is is is
kind of sufficient and if you do it with
this like
fixed point iteration thing pseudo fixed
point iteration thing where you keep
hitting it with a at every single step
it like weirdly works and this batch
size across the carry space like
actually works.
>> that part is also kept between these two
models, yeah. It seemed like another
thing that changed was having these this
sort of double layer of like, you know,
higher order thinking and lower order
thinking. It seems like it collapsed it
down into just a single one. What's the
intuition there and how does that
actually work in the TRM paper?
>> Yeah, so it's interesting. Um she
actually ablates having two separate
networks versus just having one. I guess
the more important space is the variable
scope is that you should have low-level
features and high-level features but the
same network. And so the the the the
best performing
>> The same network can extract both
basically.
>> Yeah, you weight share between the L-net
and the H-net and it's just called net
and and you do just one transformer
layer versus the four like they do in in
Sapien and just whittle it down to one
and do more of a recursion and that but
you keep ZL and ZH to be distinct and
separate. And she she calls it X and Y
which I found very confusing. Yeah. XYZ
it was just very confusing and it's just
like ZH and ZL is just cleaner. So, if
you read the paper, Y is actually like
latent space. It's it's like it's like Z
basically.
>> is not a label. Yeah, okay. Which
[laughter] really threw me off the
paper.
Uh but anyway, so I I
we'll go through some code here and I'll
walk you through it. So, I replaced all
of her nomenclature and used the the
Sapien notation which is much cleaner
and and more straightforward to me at
least. Okay, cool. Now, before we, you
know, dive into the code for a sec, like
in terms of how these TRMs actually
work, you know, it's it's pretty
interesting because these this recursion
advantage now gives you a bunch of
advantages over transformers. So, rather
than having
you know, 500 or 1,000 or a million or
whatever transformer layers and having
tons and tons of parameters, you get
compute depth basically without this
parameter depth.
Um
and the optimization process process
looks like more of like an iterative um
kind of like expectation maximization
algorithm. Do you want to talk about how
that worked in the TRM paper cuz I
thought that was also pretty
interesting.
So both of them kind of had the same
kind of uh
EM E feeling thing where like we
update ZL condition upon the input X and
ZH. Yep. Z the last ZH.
>> Yep. ZH T minus one, let's say.
And then we keep updating ZL ZL ZL ZL
and we keep updating it. And then we go
holding we update ZH condition upon
ZL and actually it's just ZL, it's not
even X. And then we just update ZH and
and the way to think about ZL and ZH is
ZL is like your uh
local scoped variables that are just
being overwritten and updating updating
updating. And then ZH and Azelia makes
this point sorry Azelia Alexia makes
this point
that is that is a candidate uh
answer a proposed latent answer that is
just an embedding space away
a one MLP look up away from the true
answer.
>> EMing just to like zoom out a little
bit.
You're you're kind of maximizing the
probability of the correct, you know,
information stored in your memory Mhm.
conditioned on a given output and
maximizing the right output conditioned
on the information stored in your memory
{quote} {unquote}
in parallel. Yeah.
>> And like that optimization algorithm
leads to you ultimately
learning a recursive method that stores
the right information to this local
memory basically and then outputs it I
think. It really like if we actually
think of Sudoku is actually a really
natural way to think about what's
actually happening under the hood where
Sudoku is an incomplete puzzle. You
can't guess every cell at any one time.
You can actually it's designed where you
can only guess one or two cells based on
the available information. So it's not
it's an incompressible problem. You
actually can't do it unless you just
randomly guessing and guessing and
guessing which is
very high combinatorial space. And so
what the ZL is doing is is some type of
let me try this, try that, do some
computation, think about little things,
and then and then it proposes and then
it we go to condition upon like
something that it may have found, it
sends it to ZH, ZH fills it in, and now
we have a little bit more of of a
filled-in Sudoku puzzle. And the
training process is training the
algorithm to know to do that, right?
It's like it's maximizing that. It's
like, "Oh, this strategy for what you
save tends to lead to correct outputs."
>> Without chain of thought.
>> Without chain of thought. That's the
most important part. Is that if we had
Sudoku and we knew how to solve Sudoku
because like we were just, you know,
dumb Homo sapiens that didn't know how
to solve Sudoku, like it would just have
solved it. And that's why it's cool
because it actually is able to discover
things without being teacher forced via
chain of thought.
>> Yeah. Should we look at some code? Let's
do it. Okay, let's dive in and I would
love to see what these papers or bottles
look like just distilled down to their
core essence. I know there's lots of
details in how you train them, but kind
of the core training algorithm. It'd be
great to contrast the two methods. Yeah.
So, I mean, they're remarkably similar.
Um and so, largely one is and learning
one is learning the other. But
basically, you start out with some ZH
and ZL that are just zeros. Yep. Um you
have some input embedding space. We go
from X raw to X, which is the maze state
or whatever it is, uh initial maze
state. And then with no grad, uh you
don't pass any gradients back through
this. You
>> So, this is the trick, basically, to not
backprop backprop through time. Here are
two of the three recursion levels. So,
you have this is like the the the they
do this just for for for simplicity, but
I hit ZL
uh T low times, and then uh once for
modulo T T low, then I hit the ZH and I
do it again and again. And like you
said, I'm updating ZL condition upon ZH
and X, and then I update ZH condition
upon ZL. Right. So, this is the like
expectation maximization style. Exactly.
And then, you don't really need this.
This is like just for clean cleanliness
to show clearly that there's no
gradients occurring above this line.
>> freezing the weights past that.
>> Exactly. And then, I hit LNet and HNet
one more time. Which is the same thing
as up above. So, this is just okay, it's
literally just the no grad thing running
one more time. Cool.
>> Yeah. And just make it really clear. And
then, there you go. And that's your HRM
model. Cool. That's quite simple.
>> two two two and two is completely
sufficient.
If you actually go much higher,
Constantine showed very clearly that it
doesn't actually help.
So, that's two of the three recursions
you said. The third happens in the
actual training loop.
>> in the train loop and at the test loop.
They both have this
MTest or N supervision, which
Alexia calls deep supervision. They call
it outer refinement steps. It's just
whatever you want to call it, call it N
sub. And so, you do this N sub times
during training. And then during test
time, there's a different hyperparameter
for how many times it recurses over each
model, which is MTest basically.
>> They're actually the same. And so, the
these this and this we can probably just
call this the same.
And but it's it's it's the same. And if
you actually Constantine does a good job
of this. If you actually train
on 16 and you test on only one,
you get like 7/8 of the performance or
like almost all the performance. So,
it's actually quite interesting that
this is just redundant too much compute
and it doesn't actually help you all
that much. So, setting this to one is
actually like But presumably for like
more complicated problems, having more
test time compute is still useful is
like the reason you would set them up
that way. For sure. And so, we call our
HRM, we get some loss, we back prop
through just the those two little
parts here, and then we step. We zero
out the gradient, but we do not update
ZH and ZL. These are still the same in
it. So, that's the really important
detail there.
And then so we go back, we pass in the
ZH and the ZL from the previous one. So,
now this is actually not the same batch.
Right. Because we have updated ZH and
ZL. So, it's in a different part of the
latent space. Cool. Yeah, and that's the
key like mini batch construction through
memory space concept. Yeah, cool.
>> Exactly. And then at test time, it's
simply the three loops. So, there's your
outer final loop, which turns out like
just at train time doesn't matter. Train
time recursion was important, but test
time recursion was actually not that
important,
which is kind of kind of
counterintuitive. And then the HRM
inside that has your two other loops.
Makes sense. And and that's it. So,
pretty simple. Now, the other two are
the same.
>> the only two changes, the main two
changes here is that they collapse L net
and H net into just net. Great. They and
it's important detail, these are four
transformer layers, this is four
transformer layers, and this is just one
transformer layer.
Uh and Alexia actually shows that going
deeper actually didn't help. Yeah, and
actually on some tasks, it was just a
feed forward net actually worked just as
well as a transformer there, right? It
was like on Sudoku, I think. Yeah.
>> Sudoku, MLP actually outperformed the
the attention. It was it it scored zero
on the maze.
The MLP scored zero on the maze. And so,
there's it's not clear it's not obvious
that the transformer is always better.
Um so, there's the weight sharing. And
then instead of going back just the one
two,
the H this
back propping through just these two,
you actually back prop through one
latent recursion step all the way
through one latent recursion step. So,
let me just walk through this a little
bit.
So, we have same thing here.
>> point, yeah. It's mainly the same thing
here. We're doing this six times.
And then we we go one more time here.
And then we do our deep recursion. This
is the outer loop.
N sub
times. And so, again, we have the no
grad, we have the detach, and then this
is where it's different. So, I I am
calling this latent recursion after the
detach.
>> Yeah. So, it's one full recursive loop
is happening with that problem. And so,
that's the main uh difference in the
optimization. Otherwise, it's
effectively the same.
And then it outputs, and then you're
good to go, and you train it [snorts]
uh exactly as the same way before.
And then at test time, it's the same
thing
uh again. And so, largely the same.
Cool. And so, in many ways, it's sort of
a simplification, right? You're
collapsing certain parts of it. You're
simplifying this net architecture.
It's slightly more complicated along
this back prop through time this back
back prop through time part because
you're actually back propping through
more than you did before, but it's like
taking a bunch of lessons from the first
one and basically simplifying most of
it. Which is actually why she need I
think is why she needs to make the model
smaller. And so, it's a 28 million
parameter model for HRM. Now, she brings
it down to a 7 million parameter model.
It actually gets from 70% to 87% on
uh um on our prize uh one, and uh and
does actually quite well on our prize
two as well. And so, um yeah, so she
makes the small the model model, you
know, uh three, four times smaller,
um but because it has that recursion, um
it it actually outperforms. And there is
one There's this uh researcher named Mel
Mitchell that writes this book uh
talking about this very phenomenon,
which is like it is um sufficient, not
necessary to go uh bigger and get better
performance, um and it is sufficient and
not necessary to to add more recursion.
And so, where I'm really excited is what
happens if you do both. Right. And
you're still limited by back prop
through time. Even uh Alexia is is
limited by back prop that last step um
from a memory perspective for sure. Um
and so, if you can make the model really
big, and you have a lots of recursion,
and we do something else other than
backprop through time. Uh then we can
get exact all the benefits of this and
all the benefits of the giant LLMs and
then you can get some crazy stuff. So
now to wrap up, why don't we talk a
little bit about the bigger picture?
What does this mean for the field of AI
research? How should people think about
where these models fit into the current
span of research happening, especially
given that it seems like a bit of a
departure from a lot of the methods that
people are used to hearing about and
increasingly seeing products that people
use?
Well, I think for one, uh this from the
arguments that Schmidhuber makes and
what we've talked about today, recursion
is important and it's not going away and
it they clearly the benefit is here of
adding recursion to models and you've
seen things like the recursion language
models at Google um that are are pretty
powerful and cool. Um and so uh that's
that's definitely one piece that's I
don't think going away anytime soon. Um
the next one is this outer refinement
loop, like back T TBTT, like T equals
one truncated backprop through time T
equals one. I think that that is a
really powerful idea, the fact that that
works so well. Uh we have yet to really
explore it that
extremely
really understand what's happening
there.
Um
and then the third is that idea of like,
okay, we know that recursion works. We
have these tiny
recursive models that are 7 million
parameters, they can solve what
a
hundred million, hundred billion,
hundred
>> 100 billion, billion parameter model
can't solve trained on the entire
internet and a 7 million parameter wins.
Like the right answer is to like take
the amazingness here and take the
amazingness here, which probably is
already in Gemini already or some of
these it might be at least in some part.
Um but when you when you take um the
benefit of both these TRMs and these
giant models and you actually slam them
together, I think that it's just going
to take off. It's going to be really
huge.
>> Yeah, one of the things that's really
interesting about these TRMs and each
TRMs is they're not general purpose
models, right? These were task-specific
models, right? The model trained to do
Sudoku cannot do arc prize inherently,
it has to be trained on the our prize
set to do so.
Versus the alarms that are used on these
tasks are general purpose models that
maybe get some additional fine-tuning
data or in-context learning data on
those tasks. And so, I think that's
where the interesting overlap might come
is if you can make these more general
purpose agents that
can somehow be general purpose in the
way that the sort of next token
prediction algorithm has given us and do
more complex reasoning to achieve that.
Seems like you can have really fish-dog
architectures to do scale of reasoning.
Right. And And like a lot of the view of
what these alarms are doing is finding
really amazing embedding representation
spaces. Yes.
>> But reasoning inside that that space is
actually not done all that much.
>> Yeah, it's it's always through the token
space that happens.
>> through the token space. And so, like
what you can imagine is we found mapping
from token space or from vision from
pixels some really cool latent space
where like things are just nicely
semantically separated and we can, you
know, makes it really easy for
downstream tasks to do. But now in that
space, use this
like tiny reasoning models, use some
some type of
recursion inside that and train those
those those that model on that a little
small model on that reasoning space.
>> [music]
>> I think that's going to be the way to
work. Pranswa, thanks so much for
breaking it all down for us. See you all
in the next episode of Decoded. Thank
you.
>> [music]