Title: Understanding SAFEs and Priced Equity Rounds by Kirsty Nathoo
Video ID: Dk6JNTDec9I
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dk6JNTDec9I
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2018-10-17T14:22:03Z
Duration: PT45M3S
Views: 357259
Likes: 5940
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Kirsty Nathoo, Startup School
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1080

Description:
YC Partner Kirsty Nathoo gives the lowdown on several different ways to capitalize your company and how those impact founder equity and cap tables overall.

Transcript and lecture slides here: https://www.ycombinator.com/library/6m-understanding-safes-and-priced-equity-rounds

This lecture is part of YC's Startup School, a free online program and global community of founders. Register and join the community at https://www.startupschool.org/

Chapters (Powered by https://bit.ly/chapterme-yc) - 
0

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I would like to introduce Kirsty who is
going to talk
uh in much detail about safe notes
equity and the like. Kirsty.
All right. Good morning everybody. So my
name is Kirsty Nathu. I'm the CFO, one
of the partners here at Y Combinator.
Um, and I have now worked with probably
over 1,500 companies in terms of getting
them incorporated, doing our YC
investment, and then seeing them through
their their subsequent raises either on
convertible instruments or on equity
rounds. So, I've seen kind of a lot by
now. Um, and so this this presentation
is is to give you some understanding of
some of the things that people don't
necessarily understand when they're
raising money. Um, and to hopefully help
you avoid some of the pitfalls that uh
we've seen we that some of the mistakes
that we've seen founders make.
So the key the key message in all of
this presentation is that it's important
that you understand at all stages of the
company's life cycle how much of the
company you've sold to investors and in
connection with that how much therefore
you also own. And the thing the thing
that makes this complicated is that most
companies will raise money on
convertible instruments first. And
because those convertible instruments
aren't yet shares, it's not immediately
obvious for a lot of founders how much
of the company they've sold. So, I'm
going to talk through um some of the
mechanics of that and help you
understand how how all that works so
that you don't get surprised when it's
too late and you can't do anything about
it.
So the other thing that you should also
be aware of is that a lot of companies
and a lot of founders will just say,
"Oh, I don't need to worry about my cap
table. My lawyers deal with my cap
table. I don't need to worry." And
actually, that's a really dangerous
statement. Um, again, you should make
sure that you're understanding this.
It's your responsibility as the CEO or
as the founder of of the company to to
understand all of this. Um, and there's
lots of ways that you can maintain your
cap table. There's lots of ways that you
can you can keep track of this. Um, and
the simplest form is just a spreadsheet.
All it's going to show is who owns how
many shares, and that's it. That's all
you need at the beginning. But there are
other services out there that can help.
Um, and I'll I'll include them on a list
of of resources after the presentation,
but there's tools like captable.io IO
and Carter which also help um for you to
keep track of these things.
Okay. So these are the these are the
three sections that I'm going to talk
about. First of all I'm going to talk
about safes um and particularly for US
companies. Most companies will raise
money first on safes or some other
convertible uh convertible instruments
which I will talk about briefly as well.
And I know Jeff mentioned the safe last
week um in a little bit of um detail,
but I'm going to go into much more
detail on that um and also how how the
sections of the safe works. The S stands
for simple and so hopefully you will you
will believe me with that and you will
all be ready to understand what's going
on in that safe as you come out of this
presentation.
Then we'll talk some more about dilution
again so that you can see we're going to
walk through the life cycle of a company
from incorporation up to raising a a
priced series A round. Um so that you
can see how how things change over that
period and then I'll give you some top
tips on other other items to do with
raising money.
All right. So first of all the safe. So
let's cover what it is and then we'll go
through the details of of how a safe is
built up. So as I said um the S stands
for simple. The rest of it is a simple
agreement for future equity. And put
simply it's a instrument where the
investor will give you money now in
exchange for a promise from the company
to give shares to the investor at a
future date when you raise money on a
priced round.
There are minimal negotiations with a
safe. Really, there's only two things
that you're probably going to negotiate
with the investor, which is how much
money you going to how much money the
investor will put into the company and
at what valuation cap. So really, those
two things are the things to negotiate.
Whereas, when you compare that with a
priced round, there's a whole raft of
things to negotiate. And that's what
makes a priced round a lot harder to uh
to close and to raise money on than than
a safe does. So So that's why often
companies will start with a safe and
then when they get to the point of being
able to raise more money and they have a
lead investor which they negotiate with
for the priced round then the safes when
they convert into shares will piggy back
on the terms that has been negotiated
with the lead investor in the priced
round.
The other thing to bear in mind is that
a safe is not debt. So some of you will
have raised on what's known as
convertible debt. That's a different
instrument. Um debt has generally an
interest rate attached to it and it has
a maturity date where the debt needs to
be repaid. Safes have neither of those
things. So it's important to understand
that there is a distinction between the
two instruments. But in terms of
conversion
in in the way that they convert in a
priced round, there are some
similarities.
So this is the first section in the
safe. And this paragraph actually
includes pretty much all the key details
that you need to understand in a safe.
So it talks about uh in exchange for
payment by investor you're going to the
investor is putting in a certain amount
of dollars
around the date. Um and down here the
valuation cap is some number. So really
those two blanks are the two negotiating
points.
This paragraph here is something that
we've added just recently in our newest
version of safes. And this is something
that will hopefully help you so that
once you've read our safe that we have
available on our website, once if
there's this paragraph on the safe, then
you know that you have read the safe.
The idea behind this is that if anything
changes in the safe, they can't you
can't either the company or the investor
cannot say this paragraph. it can't say
that it's the same as the safe that's on
the Y combinator website. And so you'll
know as a founder that you should be
looking at it more closely to see what's
been changed. So this is just something
to keep your eyes open for when you um
when you if you receive a safe from an
investor. Okay. So the anatomy of the
safe is pretty straightforward. It's
only five pages in length, so it's not
very long. We've tried really hard to
keep the language not too legal um so
it's it's easy to understand and really
it's split into is split into five
sections. Section one talks about what
happens in a various um different sets
of events. And so most of the time
what's going to happen is there will be
an equity financing at some point in the
future. And so the first part of the
section talks about what happens then?
how does the safe convert or there might
be a liquidity event i.e. the company
might get sold before the safe converts.
So it also addresses what happens if the
company is sold before the safe whilst
the safe is still outstanding
or the company might decide to close
down whilst the safe's still
outstanding. So it also addresses that.
So those are the three real key events
that might drive change um from the
safe. So it addresses all of those and
often we get questions from founders or
from investors saying but what happens
what happens if and actually these three
sections are the answers to pretty much
all of those questions. Um and then
there's a couple of other sections where
we clarify the liquidation priority
which just means who comes first in the
queue to be repaid in these different
situations.
Um and also clarifying that the safe
actually terminates i.e. it does no
longer exist if any of the top three
events happen. So that section is kind
of your instruction booklet. If
something happens in your company,
that's the section you look at to see
what happens to your safe.
Then the next section, section two is
just the definition section. So anything
that we refer to within the safe will be
explained in section two. So, if you're
not sure what the company capitalization
um definition is, you go to section two
to look at that for a for an
explanation.
Section three are the representations
that the company makes to the investor.
So, it's it's saying things like the
company um the company is duly formed.
It's it's correctly formed in Delaware.
Um, section four is the representations
that the investors make to the company.
So, it's things like the investor
saying, "Yes, I agree. I'm um I'm an
accredited investor."
Um, and then section five is kind of
legal boilerplate language that that
needs to be in there.
So, really from your point of view, the
sections that you really need to
understand are sections one and sections
two. Obviously, you need to know what
you're representing in section three as
well, but those section one and section
two are the key key parts. And that bit
is only three pages long of the safe.
So, I'm pretty sure you can all read
three pages and understand what's going
on. So, I encourage you to do that.
Okay. As some of you may have heard, um,
in the last couple of weeks, we
announced a move to a different type of
safe. Um we really we've introduced the
concept of post money safes
and it's important that we
understand what post money means. What
it basically means is after all the
safes have converted what happens at
that point and we'll go into that in a
little bit more detail in a moment but
it's it's easy to get confused about
what post money means here but it's
after all the safes. Um and the reason
why we introduced these is that we we
wanted to make it easier for founders to
understand the dilution that they were
taking i.e. how much of the company
they'd sold to investors and so how much
less of the company they owned. It was a
and it's a lot easier to to understand
that with post money safes than with the
previous safes that we had which were
known as pre- money safes.
Okay. So, basically when we're talking
about pre- money and post money, we're
talking about the same thing. It's just
a different way to
express it, to explain it. And so, in
both a priced round and for safes, the
formula stays the same. So, the pre-
money valuation plus the amount of money
raised equals the post money valuation
of the company. Okay? So, if you have a
$5 million pre- money valuation and you
raise a million, then the post money
valuation of the company is $6 million.
Okay? And that's important to remember
in a moment.
But really, that's that's as simple as
it gets.
So then based on that so that you can
understand how much of the company
you've sold when you're raising money um
on safes the formula is just your owners
or the ownership of the investors the
ownership that the the investors will
take is their amount raised divided by
the post money either valuation in the
case of a priced round or valuation cap
in the case of a safe.
So, in our example before, if the
investors were putting in $1 million and
the post money valuation was $6 million,
then they will own 16.67%
of the company.
Does that all make sense to everybody so
far? Okay, good. So, I'm going to I'm
going to talk only about safes with
valuation caps here to keep things
simple, but just be aware that there are
other different flavors of safes that
you can use and that you may have
already used um or that you may find
that you you use in future. So, there
may be the concept of a discount instead
of a cap. Um, so instead of capping the
valuation at say $6 million, it says um
there's a there's a 20% discount on the
series A price.
There's also an uncapped safe which
basically just says I'm going to put
money in now as an investor and when you
do a priced round, I'll get the same
price as the priced round investors are
going to get. That's pretty uncommon
because the investors who are putting in
money early want some kind of bonus for
putting in the money early. Um so so
it's pretty unlikely that you'll you'll
use one of those.
And then finally, there's a safe that's
um uncapped with a most favored nation
clause, which is basically what that
says is I'm not going to agree a cap
right now, but if you raise some money
from some other investors who do have a
cap and that those terms are better than
my terms, I get their terms as well as
an investor. So, this one can sometimes
happen if you're raising money very
early on and you don't really know what
the cap is and maybe, you know, you just
want to punt it for another month or
two. Um, but it just creates a little
bit more admin for the founders because
it's another thing that they have to
keep track of. Um, so we we see them
sometimes. Again, not all that common.
Um, by far the most common is just the
valuation cap only.
All right. So now we understand safes
and how they're made up. We're going to
talk about dilution and understanding
how your cap tables work.
All right. So we're going to we're going
to walk through this process. So we're
going to start with our company at
incorporation which uh Carolyn talked
about right at the start of the startup
school course I believe. So hopefully
this will not be anything new to you.
Then we're going to talk about what
happens when you raise on some raise
money on safes on post money safes. Then
we're going to talk about what happens
as you hire people and start to issue
equity to employees. And then the
company is going to do a priced round.
And so what happens to the cap table at
that point? And now I'll warn you, this
is starting to get into the math section
of the whole thing. So turn your brains
on and keep concentrating.
All right. So incorporation. So let's
just assume it's a really simple
company. There's two founders and they
split their shares equally between the
two of them. So in this example, each
founder owns 4.625 million shares. So
there's a total of 9.25 million shares
issued and each founder owns 50%.
That's pretty straightforward, right?
And so at this point in order in order
for them to own those shares, the
founders have done the paperwork.
They've granted those shares through a
restricted stock purchase agreement and
there's vesting on those shares as was
talked about with with Carolyn earlier
in the um earlier in the the course.
Okay. So then the next thing that's
going to happen is this company raises
some money on a post money safe and they
raise from two investors. So, the first
investor comes in quite early and they
put in $200,000
at a $4 million post money valuation
cap. And then a little bit later on,
investor B comes in, puts in $800,000 at
an $8 million post money valuation cap.
So, if you remember back to our
formulas,
the ownership that investor A has at
this point is their amount of money that
they've put in divided by the post money
valuation cap, which gives them 5% of
the company.
Same for investor B, 800,000 over 8
million, which gives them 10% of the
company. So, in total, the founders at
this stage have sold 15% of the company.
So even though this doesn't change the
actual cap table because these aren't
shares at this point this is just a safe
this is just a promise to give shares in
future the founders should know at this
stage that they have sold 15% of the
company and if they've sold 15% of the
company then they can no longer own 100%
of the company. So now instead of the
founders owning 100% of the company
between them, they've been diluted by
the 15%, so they're going down to 85% of
the company. So it's important to have
that in your brain when you're raising
money because whilst the cap table, like
I say, doesn't change. The fact that
you've just sold 15% of the company is
an important fact and it's an important
thing to know because you want to make
sure that you're not selling too much of
the company because you know that
there's a lot of future fundraisings
that are going to happen with the
company and therefore there's going to
be more future dilution.
Is everyone happy with how we've got to
that 15%.
Yes, the question. So the founders are
only the ones getting diluted at this
point. The earlier investor doesn't get
diluted.
Right. So the question is is it's only
the founders that are being diluted at
the moment. And yes, that's that's
exactly right because that's the
construct of the post money safes. The
the all the later the latest safe
investors don't dilute the earlier safe
investors. It just dilutes the existing
shareholders. And at this stage it's
just the founders who are the existing
shareholders.
Does it make sense to have shares in the
treasury so that they can kind of cover
the anticipated dilution?
Okay. So the question is does it make
sense to have shares authorized but
unissued I think is what you mean. Um so
at this stage it doesn't necessarily
make a difference as you'll see in a
moment. Um you actually create new
shares that you're going to issue to
these these stakeholders when they
convert. Um so at this stage it's it's
fine to just have the shares that that
the founders have and maybe some that
you want to give out for hiring.
Why invest has different uh post money
valuation cap?
Uh well in this example so the question
is why do they have different post money
valuation caps? And so in this example
um you know it could it could be for
very any number of reasons but in this
example we're assuming that you know
this this one happened maybe a month
after incorporation and maybe this one
happened six months after incorporation
and more is more has gone on in the
company and so that there's slightly
less risk and so the company's been able
to negotiate a different cap. But things
things change through the company and
it's it's totally fine to have different
caps because as you can see from here
you just you just calculate everything
separately and then add it all together.
Okay. So company's raised a million
dollars.
First thing it's probably going to do
with that money is hire some people. And
when you hire employees you're probably
going to give them some equity. Um, and
so in this example, the company creates
at this stage a option pool, otherwise
known as an ESOP or an employee
incentive plan. There's lots of
different names for it. Um, and in this
example, they have created a plan or a
pool that has 750,000 shares in it and
they've issued out of there 650,000
shares to early employees.
So this has now changed their cap table
because they've issued shares. And so
the fact that that there's there's more
shares um being being issued means that
the cap table changes because we now
have more shareholders.
And so now we have a total of 10 million
shares that have been um fully diluted
basically means the combination of
issued and um set aside in the options
pool in this case. So now we have our
founders instead of owning 100%
have 92.5% of the company and the option
plan in total is 7 and a half% of the
company.
But remember those safes. So these
founders don't actually have 92% because
they have also sold 15% of the company.
And so actually they own less than the
92 and a half%. Um they've actually they
actually own 85% of that which is about
78.6%.
So again this is where it gets dangerous
for the founders. If they forget about
the safes the founders are sitting there
saying well I own 92 and a half% this is
great. I own still loads of the company
and they have forgotten about the safes
and the dilution they're about to take
from that. So again, it's really
important to keep track of how much
you've sold on your safes
so that you can do that calculation and
say actually I don't have 92 and a half%
I have 85% of that because I've sold 15%
of the company.
But it's also
these numbers have been diluted by those
safes as well. So as you'll see in a
moment, these numbers change as well.
Okay, so now we're going to fast forward
about a let's say a year. Um,
the company is doing well. It's raised a
priced round and it has a term sheet for
the priced round which says that the
pre- money valuation of the round is $15
million and they're going to raise a
total of $5 million of which the lead
investor which is the investor that they
do all of the negotiations with is going
to invest $4 million.
And so if you remember from our formula
at the start, the post money valuation
is the pre- money valuation plus the
total raise. So the post money valuation
is 20 million.
The other thing that gets negotiated as
part of the priced round is the option
pool increase. So generally what happens
is that the investors in the series A
will say okay we're going to put some
money in. We know that this money is
going to go towards hiring. So, we want
you to create an option pool for all the
new employees that you're going to
employ and give equity to in advance so
that it's sitting there ready for those
employees. And so, usually you see that
the um the option pool is about 10%, it
might go up to about 15%, but anything
more than that is is fairly
non-standard.
Yes. Where did that come from? Oh, over
there. Okay. Yes. Is the 10% coming from
founders or collective?
So you so the question is is the 10%
coming from founders or collectively and
you'll see in a moment is going to
dilute the existing shareholders and the
safeolders but it doesn't dilute the new
money.
So how is the how is the option pool
represented on the cap table? Is it
represented on the cap table or what
form does it take?
So the question is how is the option
pool represented on the cap table? So if
we go back to here, we just show it so
that we have the options available from
the pool that haven't been issued is a
line and anything that has been issued
from the pool is a separate line. The
reason why we show those two things
separately is that these these shares
are considered outstanding. They're
considered issued whereas these aren't.
And so that's the difference between
what that's what fully diluted means. It
means outstanding shares which are these
two lines plus any shares reserved under
the option pool.
All right, where are we? Oh, so so quick
quick math question for for you.
What do we expect that the um lead
investor will own? What percentage of
the company do we think the lead
investor is going to own after the road
round closes?
20%. Yeah. For the lead investor, 25% in
total for all of the series A investors.
Okay. Because they're the lead investor
is going to put in $4 million divided by
$20 million gives 20%. So you'll see in
a minute the cap table that that all
works through in the calculations but
it's always good to just do that quick
check so that you can sense check what's
going on in your cap table.
All right. So in a priced round where
you have or where the company has raised
money just on post money safes and then
has raised a priced round three things
will happen and these three things
happen at the same time in terms of the
documents but in terms of the
calculations it's important that the
order is correct.
And so the three things with post money
safes is that the first thing that
happens is the safes convert into
shares.
Then an options pool is increased or
created if there isn't one already. And
then the new investors invest. And
you'll see in a minute how that all
works through with the calculations.
Now, one other thing that starts to get
a little bit confusing here is one of
the the sort of the lingo of of how this
works is that often the the the lawyers
and the the founders will talk about the
safes being included in the pre- money.
And what that's basically saying is that
when the new investors invest and they
calculate their price per share, the
calculation includes the shares from the
conversion of the safes. So even though
the safes themselves are referred to as
post money safes, that's talking about
how the safes convert. This sentence
where the safes are included in the pre-
money is talking about how the series A
price is calculated. So, it gets a
little bit confusing because it's
talking about post money and pre- money,
but that's just something to bear in
mind when when this happens. And
obviously, at the time that you're
raising a price round, you're going to
have a lot of advisers. You're going to
be working with lawyers who can explain
all of this to you as well.
All right, let's go through these three
steps then. So, the first step is our
safes are going to convert.
And we already know because we've
already done the calculation that these
safes are going to convert into 15%
of the company. And so 15% of the
company means 15% of the total fully
diluted shares both common shares and
preferred shares. So investors get
preferred shares which have a different
set of rights and privileges than the
common shares which is what the founders
and employees get.
So, we have enough information here in
the cap table that we have here to
calculate what the actual number of
shares are here because we know that
they're going to be 15% of the total
issued shares. So, we know that this is
85% of the total issued shares. So, we
know what our total is. And then once we
get the totals, we can work out what 5%
of that is and what 10% of that is.
So after a bit of algebra,
these are the numbers that come through.
So now at this point, we have 11
million764,75
shares in total because it's preferred
shares plus common shares.
Our first safe investor, who we said was
going to have 5%, has 588,000 shares,
which represents 5% of that 11.7
million.
and our second safe investor has 10%.
Now, it's important to remember that
this is partway through a whole process.
It's partway through those three steps
that are happening in a priced round.
And so, actually, you're never going to
see your cap table looking like this.
This is this is just one step in the
calculation, but it's just to break out
so that you can see where that 15% has
come from.
And you can also see here that when we
were saying that the founders instead of
owning um 92 and a half% they owned
about 78%. You can see that here because
they've been diluted by that 15% as have
the um employees with their options. So
this is this is the post money part of
the post money safes after the safes
have converted but before anything else
has happened in relation to the priced
round.
Got it.
Okay.
All right. So, the next step is Oh, we
got have a question. Okay.
So, the percentage of you can go back.
So, the 5% 10% that has nothing to do
with the post valuation and the service,
right?
Okay. So, the question is it doesn't
does the five and 10% have any any um
um like the
the seed stage? Yeah. Okay. So, yeah.
So, the five and 10% is based on the
valuation cap in the safe. And so,
assuming the priced round valuation is
higher than the valuation cap in the
safe, then it this is just looked at
with reference to the safe and it's just
connected to the the existing
um shareholders.
If in the very rare circumstances that
the priced round is lower than the
valuation cap on the safe, then actually
these safe investors will get a better
deal because they will sell their sh
their safes will convert at the same
price that the series A investors have
um which is a lower price than the
valuation cap. So actually there is the
potential that this can go up. Um, this
percentage can be higher if the priced
round is valued at a lower price than
the cap on the safe.
Does that trigger the conversion?
It still triggers the conversion even if
the valuation's lower because it's the
fact that they've raised money that
triggers the the conversion, not the
price. So, it's just something to bear
in mind that when we're talking about
this that that post money safes and in
this example that you're you're selling
15% of the company, there is potential
that it could be higher, but it's a
pretty rare situation where you raise a
price round that's priced lower than the
the valuation of your safes. And it's
also something to bear in mind of trying
not to negotiate too hard on the safes
to make your your caps too high. Because
if you raise money on a hund00 million
cap, but then you can only raise money
on a $25 million priced round, let's
say, then you're actually selling more
of the company to those safeolders than
you expected.
If the founders had convertible debt at
this point in time and where does that
okay so the question is if there's
convertible debt so this would this
would happen here as well so it would
the the calculation for convertible debt
is is slightly different um but it would
happen in here and you would show them
just as other investors because they
would be converting into shares in
relation to the priced round as well.
What if you went crazy and actually gave
or sold 85% of your company and the
valuation is lower at the end? What
happens? Can't share with them.
Well, so that's that's the the big
question. So the question is what
happens if you go crazy and sell 85% of
your company that Yeah, I mean that's
that's the problem. Um that that
founders can can raise too much money on
too low valuation caps when they're
raising on convertible instruments. they
don't realize how much dilution they're
taking and then they get to their price
round and they look at their cap table
and they're just like what I only own,
you know, 10% of the company now and
unfortunately there's not a huge amount
you can do at that point because you've
already entered into the contracts with
the investors to to do this and so
that's why it's important to not get
into that situation in the first place.
You you made a comment earlier that uh
the saves are priced or if the cap is
higher than the price then it would lose
actually a lot. Can you explain that
because I thought the safe it would the
price the cap was actually the cap right
if it was priced lower than that lower
price.
So so yeah so the question is how to how
the cap works in terms of in relation to
the priced rounds. So if the if the
priced round is higher than the cap,
then the safe converts at the cap, which
means that the safe holders basically
get more shares for the same amount of
money than the series A investors get.
So that's in that situation, that's how
you know what percentage you're selling.
But in the situation where the cap is
higher than the priced round, then you
would never
it it wouldn't be fair to the safe
holders to have them getting a worse
deal than the series A investors
because they put money in earlier. And
so what happens then is that you the the
calculation if you remember if you go
back to the section one of the safe
where it says what happens in a priced
equity round situation it says if the if
the cap is
um if the cap is higher than the priced
round then they just use the priced
round price to calculate their shares.
And so because that priced round price
is different these numbers will go up.
So you don't lose much, right?
The founders don't lose much.
Well, it depends. It depends on the
delta. So if it's if it's only a little
bit different, then yeah, maybe instead
of 15%, they've sold 16%, let's say. But
if it's if the delta is really big, then
it could go up. But again, it's it's
something to be aware of. It's in the
current environment, it's pretty
unlikely that um people raise price
rounds at lower valuations than their
safes just because when you're raising
money on safes, the investors won't
agree to invest at a ridiculously high
valuation because they want they want to
get that bonus of the lower price when
their shafes convert.
Yeah. Okay. Let's keep going.
All right. So this this step you're
going to have to trust me on. Um so the
next step in the in the section is that
the option pool is increased. And this
is actually quite a complicated
calculation. It it gets a little bit
circular. And I'm going to be sharing a
model with everybody so that you can see
how this works if you're interested. But
basically what you're trying to do is to
get to 10% of um the post money shares
are sitting available in the option
pool. And in this example, we're going
to increase our option pool by 1.695
million. And you'll see in a minute that
that flows through into the cap table.
And you'll see that 10%. But just trust
me on this one because this is this is
quite a complicated calculation.
And then step three, the new money
invests. So this is where we have our
series A investors putting in $5
million. And there's a couple of
calculations that happen in there. Um so
the price per share that's calculated
for the round is the valuation um
divided by the capital capitalization.
So this is the pre- money valuation 15
million. And when we're talking about
capitalization here what we are are
meaning is that it's the total fully
diluted shares after the safe conversion
and the option pool increase. So that's
why this is step three because our sh
our safes have converted and our option
pool has increased. And so we have our
10 million shares that we'd issued 9.25
to the founders, 725,000
in the options pool
um plus the safe conversion shares plus
the increase in the options pool. And
you'll see the numbers in a moment. So
then the number of shares that the
series A investors get is the amount
they're investing divided by their price
per share. So those are the three
calculations that you need to remember
for your series A.
So here we go. Here's here here are
those calculations. So we're saying that
the capitalization we have our 10
million shares that were already issued.
We have our 1.76 million shares from the
conversion of the safes and we have our
increase to the option pool of 1.695
million. So that gives us 13.5 million
total shares.
We divide our $15 million by those
shares to get a new money price. So this
is the price that the investors will pay
for their shares of $1.114.
So that means that the $5 million of new
money that's coming in will buy 4.48
million shares and the lead investor
because they're putting in 4 million
will get 3.59 million of those shares.
So these are the calculations that get
that get worked through. This is what
the cap table then looks like
post money. So this is now everything's
been done in the round.
So we've still got our founders, we've
still got our options. Those numbers
haven't changed. This number's changed
because it's increased by 1.695 million.
And you can see here that now this is
10% of the total shares, which is what
we were targeting because that was
agreed in the term sheet.
We have our safe investors who the
number of shares haven't changed.
because they already we'd already done
their calculation for the conversion but
their percentages have changed. It's
gone down a little bit and the reason
why those have gone down is because the
safe investors have been diluted by the
series A money and by the increase in
the options pool.
And then we have our lead investor and
our other investors in our series A. And
as you remember when we did the the
quick back of envelope calculation at
the point of getting the term sheet,
our lead investor owns 20%. Our other
investors own 5%. So in total they have
25%.
And so the founders up here now own 51
a.5%. Which is a big jump from the cap
table that they originally were looking
at where they owned uh 92 and a half%.
And that's where this gets complicated.
If you don't understand your dilution,
you don't understand how much of the
company that you've sold. When you get
to this point and you look at the cap
table and you're saying, "Oh no, I only
own 30% of the company. How did that
happen?" There isn't a lot you can do
because most of that dilution has
already happened because you've raised
money from the safes. The the because
you've raised money on safes. And so
that's why it's super important that you
keep track of this dilution because at
this point there isn't a lot you can do
about it.
All right,
moving on.
So a couple of couple of top tips for
you.
We've mentioned briefly about
convertible notes and that's just
another instrument that you can use to
raise money in the early days. Um, often
we find companies outside of the US will
raise money on convertible debt. There's
nothing wrong with it. Um,
it is a little bit more complex just
because you have to deal with interest
that occurs on it and maturity dates,
but companies companies deal with that.
But what I would say is try not to have
a combination of safes and convertible
notes just because it makes things a
little bit more complicated in the
calculations. Um, so if you start
raising on debt, then probably stick
with it, but ideally start with safes
because it's actually making your lives
a little bit easier.
So again, we're now um recommending that
companies use post money safes, but
there are pre- money safes available,
and some of you may have already raised
on pre- money safes. That's totally
fine. Um, it just makes it a little bit
more complicated to understand dilution.
Uh but you can still do the same back of
envelope calculation to get a a ballpark
figure even though it's not exactly
accurate.
Um if you have raised money on pre-
money safes then it's fine to com to in
future raise money on post money safes.
The calculations just get a little bit
complex but it's it's totally doable. So
that's fine. Don't panic. um would
suggest that you probably move on to
post money safes um even if you've
raised money on pre- money safes just so
that you can keep track of your future
dilution.
And a quick word on optimization in all
of this. When you're raising money on
safes, don't try to overoptimize for the
cap. It gets really easy to start seeing
this as a as a um a competition and you
start talking to your friends and you
start saying, "Well, I've raised money
on a $6 million cap." cap and they say,
"Well, I've got an $8 million cap and so
I'm more successful than you are." And
you know, as Jeff mentioned last week,
fundraising is not the be all and end
all. It's a means to an end. So, just
don't don't try to overoptimize. Don't
try to push this up too far because
you're negotiating with investors who do
this all day and every day. And you're
probably not somebody who negotiates
this all day and every day. And actually
um when I ran the numbers on the
calculation that we've just been
through, if we'd have changed that
800,000 that was raised on an $8 million
cap to a $10 million cap,
the ownership at the close for the
founders would have been 52.7%
rather than 51.5. So it's not actually a
huge difference, especially if you have
two or three or four founders,
co-founders. and the extra pain for
negotiating that $2 million cap is
probably not worth it. You know, just
take the money, do what you need to do
with the money, and make the company a
success instead.
Okay, so in conclusion,
use post money safes where you can.
Hopefully all of you can use those going
forward. Understand what you're selling
with the company. So, make sure that you
keep track of your dilution. Um, and
understand where where the company is
being sold.
And finally, again, don't overoptimize
for valuation caps. Uh, because it
doesn't actually make as much difference
as you think it's going to make. Thank
you very much for listening. I know this
stuff's difficult.