Title: Common Mistakes With Vibe Coded Websites
Video ID: DNSXlBmukck
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNSXlBmukck
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-03-06T15:00:31Z
Duration: PT37M27S
Views: 101994
Likes: 2727
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1120

Description:
As no code design tools become more common, so do the pitfalls. You know what they look like - the purple gradients, annoying hover effects, sections that fade as you scroll. So how do you avoid a site that feels vibe coded while still taking advantage of these new tools? In this episode of Design Review, YC’s Aaron Epstein is joined by Visiting Partner Raphael Schaad, the founder and designer of Cron (now Notion Calendar). Together they’ll review user submitted sites with an eye for how to leve

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

It's easier than ever to design with AI
tools, but that doesn't mean you should
always accept all changes. [music] So
today I'll be joined by Raphael Shad to
look at the good, the bad, and the ugly
of AI assisted design and sort through
how to use these superpowers to stand
out. Welcome to another design review.
All right, today I am thrilled to be
joined by Raphael Shad, one of the
newest visiting partners here at YC. And
Raphael was the co-founder of Chron, a
modern calendar tool, which you sold to
Notion a while back and are also one of
the top designers that I know and have
worked with. So Raphael, it's an honor
to have you here and it's an honor to
work together now at YC. Yeah, super fun
to be now back in in in YC and helping
founders next generation founders build
iconic companies. Well, you're the
perfect person to have on here because
topic that we're going to be talking
about today is AI design trends. On the
negative end there's the AI design slop
and on the positive end there's a lot of
AI design trends that that now are
easier to build for anybody even if
they're not a designer. So what are some
of the common things that you've seen
recently, a lot of the AI top AI design
trends that are standing out that that
you'd want to call out for the audience
before we jump into some sites.
>> Yeah, sure. This all kind of started
when I had like a late night thought and
tweeted that I see a lot of dumb hover
effects on landing pages of startups
these days. Presumably wipe coded and so
I was kind of curious to peel the the
the layer back there. It's like how did
these like what I thought were dumb
effects, how did they make it into LLMs
and why are they're everywhere now? A
couple other trends that we then
identified was kind of like purple
gradients. All of a sudden all startup
websites had purple gradients everywhere
or these sections that kind of like fade
as you go in as you scroll and they fade
in fade out. Yeah, and it's not so much
that those inherently are bad. It's not
purple gradients are bad. Nobody should
ever use them. It's that now they're
just so ubiquitous everywhere that they
kind of lose all meaning and specialness
and originality. Totally. And one of the
key things was when there was a good
website kind of establishing a trend, it
took a while in the old world for others
to kind of like copy these trends. But
now with LLMs, if there's a good website
with a purple gradient, it makes it into
the LLM because the LLM gets trained on
like the good examples that get linked
to a lot. And then all of a sudden like
the next week all the startup websites
look the same. Yes. And so this is both
good and bad if this power is used in
the right ways. So we've got a bunch of
YC companies that have submitted their
websites that were all built with AI
coding tools. So this should give us
good grounds to figure out
ways that they have been used really
really well and things that we would do
differently if we were designing it
ourselves. So let's let's dive into some
of this.
>> Let's have a look. All right. Okay,
first up we've got new new.ai.
Solve your game testing with AI agents.
Save countless hours of manual game QA
by using AI agents performing end-to-end
tests at scale. Purple gradients.
>> The first thing that jumps out is very
purple site
which you know, we were just talking
about. That's one of the most common
things that you see. So it's interesting
like pre-LLM day, I think I would have
looked at this and gone like wow, this
looks really nice. And now I look at it
and I'm like they used AI to design
this. Maybe they didn't but like that's
what it screams to me. Okay, so one
thing is interesting as we as you start
scrolling here, we've got this line
that's following us up and down.
And it's interesting because I actually
find this this line to be a little
distracting.
I'm paying more attention to the line
than I am the the things that I think
that it wants me to pay attention to.
It's it's almost like something that
it's kind of like probably hard to
implement for a human and you would have
never thought to actually code this up
before AI
and just because we now can just because
LLM's are kind of good at these type of
like SVG you know build ups or
transforms doesn't mean that it's
actually a good design and helps you
convert potential you know visitors into
into customers basically. Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know anybody that's like
we need a line that goes through here.
Let's start coding that from scratch.
Like you would only implement something
like this because it was so easy to do.
Um but I don't think it actually adds
value. If anything I think it distracts
from the rest of the page.
Um
I can't recall
anything from these sections based on
this.
Um okay, so now we're down to everything
in one place.
You
I find this hard to read. It's uh it's
it's very light.
Um maybe I'm just old. Um Yeah, contrast
could be improved there a little bit. So
these cards are interesting, right?
Where
>> Um this is actually pretty good. Uh this
is uh probably something that would have
been maybe too expensive to do or only
like the very best or like website
designers would have kind of like got
gotten to the lengths of of doing
something like that. These hover
animations for the cards. But AI is so
simple to do and this is actually like a
pretty tasteful um way of using
leveraging so like the powers of LLM's
to to build more compelling websites.
>> Yeah, what's cool about it is it feels
like it helps establish the brand and
it's unique and it's creative and it's
fun.
Um and it it's actually trying to you
know multiplayers like two controllers
with lightning connecting them.
Um and it actually helps reinforce the
points that I think that they're trying
to make here.
Um and this is a great example of you
know where the line that was following
you down the page didn't add much value.
This is this would have been really hard
to do and now um you kind of get it for
free. Yeah. Um you don't have to go from
scratch building a lot of this stuff.
One of the things I want to try out is,
um, up here.
Um, so we here have the main navigation.
One of the things that jumps out here is
that as you hover, you generally kind of
want to make things pop. But here, it
actually kind of disappears. So instead
of inviting to click, to talk to them,
um, it kind of like goes into the
background. Same here, it kind of fades
out as you activate one of these menu
points. Um, this is something that I
think a designer would almost never
choose to do. And now, uh, in the
default of browsers, it also doesn't
work that way. And now LLNL just somehow
decided that that's a good, uh, hover
kind of like effect, um, but it makes no
sense. Um,
think about it that way. Like the
browser already has like a built-in
hover effect for free, even without CSS.
It turns the cursor into a hand, right?
So that already indicates like I can
click here. So just leaving it white in
this case, or just kind of like the the
bright purple, and then having the hand
already tells me like I can click on
this thing. So if you want to add a CSS
effect, then, you know, make it maybe
like a little pop. Maybe make it like
one shade lighter, um, or more active,
or add like a little, you know, a
little, uh,
glow around it. But don't make it go
away. Yeah. Do you have any rules of
thumb when, you know, you're designing
something and you're trying to come up
with hover effects? Like, what are your
goals when you're trying to come up with
the right hover effect?
>> Yeah, make it sort of like clickable.
Um, Steve Jobs famously said, you know,
he wanted to make things lickable with
the Aqua interface back in the day. I
think, you know, make things, you know,
clickable, kind of like inviting to to
click. Stick to sort of like pretty
standard. Again, kind of I think the
hand indicates that something is
clickable, and so I wouldn't go much
beyond that. Another thing that I see
hover being used, um, is a lot to kind
of like reveal additional information.
So not just kind of like a hover effect
to make the UI more feel alive. Like
hover is great to kind of make UIs feel
more alive, right? Um, but I see it
increasingly used to kind of like, uh,
disclose additional and critical
information or functionality, and I
don't think that's the best use for
hover. This whole trend uh, that maybe
like kind of like Mac OS kind of started
to over the years get more and more into
kind of like very clean interfaces. Get
the functionality and the tools and the
buttons all out of the way. So, there's
all this space for content. I don't want
to have my computer to be just like all
content. I actually want it to be, you
know, a bicycle for the mind, a tool.
And so, revealing additional
functionality only on hover and you have
to go hunt for what the tool can
actually do. I think it's kind of like
an anti-pattern. Yeah. Not to mention
that, you know, there isn't a concept of
hover on mobile as well. So.
>> Yeah. And long press, which is kind of
the equivalent of of hover,
never really catch caught on on mobile.
Probably because it's so hard to
discover.
You don't want to sit there long
pressing all the time to try to figure
out if if there is any additional
functionality behind the desktop
interface, a tool where you have to
hover around everywhere to discover
where the stuff actually lives. You
know, the disclosure arrows or like
hiding something or getting to a dot dot
dot kind of menu to get to extra
functionality. If that's all hidden
behind hover, then, you know, you're
just not as efficiently communicating
the functionality of your software.
>> Yeah. Overall, I think this is a very
nicely designed site. I think it's
easier than ever using AI design tools
and LLMs to get a professional-looking
site. There's almost no excuse for not
having it now. And especially as we're
reviewing YC applications, if you look
at a demo and that demo
does not have a base level of quality
design, it seems like the person just
didn't even try. Because it's so easy to
do it now. So, Nunu, really cool site
and some some really interesting
applications of using AI here. So, well
done. All right, next up we got Rosebud
AI. Create games with AI. And and once
again, like you start to see the trend.
Here we've got the purple gradient
again. We've got a very similar
kind of pinkish purple accent color up
here.
And that's why like in isolation with
one of of like it looks cool. It looks
modern everything, but you know, one
after the other they all start to kind
of look the same and it takes away a lot
of the core brand and originality and
things like that that I think most
founders want for their site. So, let's
dig in here. This is the first time
we're looking at these live.
>> Yeah. Um so, Rosebud.ai, create games of
AI and there's a prompt to to to prompt
to game kind of interaction, I would
assume. Um
That's cool. There's something you can
instantly play. Yeah.
Let's try it.
>> Woah, it's like a 3D game in the
browser.
That's cool.
>> There's a person walking around.
I can use the arrows.
Let's try it. There we go. Oh.
WASD, we have a old school gamer here.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh, you can jump.
All right, let's escape out of this.
Um but cool, definitely kind of like
engaging.
Um
I wonder whether this is actually their
like product code running on the website
here or this is like live coded Yeah.
sandbox environment. Um Yeah, I would
assume that this is the type of thing
you can create with their product, but
um that's an interesting point is that
they don't really tell us. Mhm. You
know, it doesn't say like play a game
made with our product right now. Um it's
interesting, is this following us this
top bar?
>> these are just anchors jumping
vertically around.
>> Yeah, so what's interesting is I didn't
realize this at the time, but when we
went to that one we were just playing,
that was under modify games.
And so, what I wonder is if this is a
game that is already been created that
we can modify in real time and that's
what they're trying to show off rather
than the creation part. Yeah. So, maybe
kind of like a thing to take away here
is that using this non kind of like
non-standard navigation
is tripping us off a little bit on how
to use this website. Another thing that
kind of jumped out here at the top is
like I don't think anyone would
think of combining a red logo with
purple as an accent color necessarily.
Uh it's not necessarily complementary.
Uh and uh I guess whenever I see the use
of emojis, even though they're not the
system emojis, I feel like it's a little
lazy. And so I I feel like LLMs kind of
take the easy path because they don't
have any IP really themselves. They're
just like big models kind of cobbling
things together. They use like these
standard icons everywhere and it's just
immediately kind of like a tell. Yeah, I
think we could just use more context up
here, too. And and you know, the
the name of the company is is here. It
looks like it's almost part of the
headline.
Rather than I would expect it to be up
here by the logo. Yeah, and then the
value prop kind of being more clear. You
know,
create games with AI, something
something. It's kind of like what's
important for the H1 is typically kind
of you know, what is it?
Who is it for? And to what end? Why
should that person that it's for care?
And if those three things plus call to
action
are not kind of above the fold, then
it's a harder time to convert convert
visitors. Yeah.
Um okay, we've got some I guess examples
of games. Yep, so games created with
Rosebud AI.
Um okay, this is interesting. So,
there's another effect here. You can see
the light following my cursor
um around the edges. And it Yeah, this
is the kind of thing where, you know,
you're like, "Hey, it costs nothing to
do this." Then maybe you're like, "Yeah,
sure. Let's throw it in. It's fun and
it's playful."
Um but if you had to spend a week coding
this and you know, getting it to work
right, you'd be like, "Ah, that's not
worth it." Okay, so we've got a lot of a
lot of game examples. It looks like
maybe this is just the rest of the site
here. Okay, and then we hit a footer.
There's a create your own game button.
>> Uh yeah, okay. That says they disabled
the button.
>> of the some of the um projects you can
remix and then it kind of puts up the
conversion wall. Okay.
Um that would go beyond sort of like
landing page. Mhm. Very cool. Awesome.
Well done, Rosebud. Okay, so next up
we've got Get Crocs. And one of the
first things that I noticed here was
kind of the fade in. It was this
automatic fade in. Um
Ooh, and another thing that I noticed is
my scroll is hijacked here. Guys, maybe
a little hard to um to see on screen.
Uh
but there's only some scroll jacking
logic going on. Um and there's also like
a state where you see both the detached
and the fixed uh header menu all like
both at the same time. Like right right
on here. Yeah. Um so typically kind of
like they should just smoothly I like
the sticky header. Um but it's just like
smoothly transition one to the other.
And here you see something like that.
You know, they're clearly two distinct
menus that just happen to kind of be the
same.
I'm sorry. I'm so distracted by the
button that's chasing me around
[laughter] on the screen here.
Um
Yeah, this
I almost feel like it's hard to get the
button to click on it cuz it's
constantly moving.
>> Does it make you want to talk to the
founders more or less?
It makes me distracted, I would say. I'm
not paying attention to what they do.
I'm just
I'm like, "Why is this button following
me around?"
Um it definitely got my attention,
I would say. Um one of the other things
that I noticed first, too, is almost
these like meteors that are, you know,
shooting down from the angles. You can
kind of see them over there. Um that's
another kind of thing where like it
doesn't feel like it actually adds a lot
of value to the product. And again, if
you had to build that from scratch, like
it would never be worth your time.
Um but you it's so easy to do it that
people are like, "Yeah, let's throw that
in. It looks cool." Um but I actually
find it a little distracting. Um I don't
think it adds value to the the product
here. And the hero screenshot here is um
I guess uh poster image for a video.
Um
Uh and it goes into what looks like a
completely different video.
>> Yeah, that was confusing.
>> And the poster image is It's blurry
here. Um I don't know whether this is
like an artifact of like
using using AI or not. Um,
but just as a general design principle,
I think all all your assets should be
you know high-res, high-quality,
and this just looks like something very
blur blurry. Yeah. And and again, back
on the button, too, cuz I still see even
when we're down here, it's like still
chasing us around. You know, this is
another example of the type of thing
that you would only do because it's
easy. But just because something is easy
doesn't mean it's worth doing. There's a
lot of things that are now at your
fingertips with AI that, you know,
anything imaginable is possible. Just
because something is possible doesn't
mean you should say yes to it. Here
we're kind of like hitting a little bit
on on just a lack of visual
consistency. Like this looks like an
entirely different visual language than
anything we've sort of like seen seen
above.
Um, Where do you think that comes from?
I wonder. Um, maybe different sections
of the website being made by to like
different parts of the tool.
Um, maybe it's also just kind of like a
function of like this here looking very
different
um, than so like the website content.
Yeah, sometimes just like a clear image
with a little bit of text, maybe a
headline, and then some subtext, um,
goes a long way. Yeah.
And I got to say we're like halfway down
the page right now, and um, if you ask
me what they did, I would not be able to
tell you. Let's go back up to the top
and remind ourselves.
AI creative strategist to make ads that
work.
Ads that Okay, so it's something to make
ads, it seems like. It's interesting
they do kind of have like a visual um,
like style to it with a lot of these uh,
it's almost like a vertical motion blur
or something on a color gradient that we
see in some of these images. Um, like
these right here, and we saw the same
thing in these here, and these here, um,
and these here. Um, but it's it's
constrained to some of these elements,
and it feels like, you know, it's maybe
a little overused here cuz it's hard to
read these and this feels like more like
a rainbow rather than calling the
attention to it. But up here does not
have that style at all, which is maybe
you know, the point that you're making
earlier and I could see something where
the background here is more reflective
of this type of style and then that
might carry it through all the way
through the rest of the page.
>> Yeah. Let me quickly reload the page and
try something.
So we see all these sections kind of
like fading in.
Um and here again, it's just like fading
in and one of the things that I noticed,
I just don't see the
advantage of having these things not
just right there as I scroll because
scrolling already like is the motion.
Why does it have to like also then kind
of like fade in? Um and one of the
things that you get is these weird um
for example, here, right? We say, "We're
here to answer all your questions." And
then there's one question and we we we
break to here earlier and now it's like,
"Wow, that's a lame FAQ if there's only
like one Q and one A." Um but then it's
like, "Aha, it just hasn't come in yet."
Um and so not a fan of that pattern.
Yeah. What bothers me with the fade-ins
a lot of time and I'm not sure if this
does it or not is when they're on a
timer. Sometimes I'm scrolling really
quickly and I'll get all the way past
the section as it's starting to fade in
up at the top and I miss the content
altogether. So I'm I'm curious to try
that here
um and see how they did this. So like if
I'm just kind of zooming down.
Um so these seem to fade in
um at least when it's at the bottom of
the page. But it still feels like going
through molasses because it's all scroll
jacked. Like hijacking the sort of like
actual native browser scrolling um to do
some fancy thing with JavaScript to
actually have the hooks to do all these
animations.
>> Yeah.
All right.
>> Super interesting.
Very creative. Uh so well done, Get
Crocs.
Okay, next we got Sphinx, your last
compliance hire.
All right, we got some animation thing
going on here. Um, I think one of the
trends that we've seen so far is just
like way more animation these days than
there were, you know, 3 years ago
probably because these AI design tools
make it so easy to do this.
>> Yeah. Let's quickly talk about hierarchy
here. Um, so we start with um, a
logotype, kind of a stylized version of
the name of the company, Sphinx, right?
That's cool, top left, pretty standard.
But then we have the H1, is also good,
and the subtext, but also we have like
this kind of like weird in between, like
fourth style, right? Um, not something
that I typically ever saw designers or
engineers kind of come up with their own
landing pages. It's only something kind
of like these many, many styles mixed is
something that I increasingly see kind
of LLMs do because like somehow the LLM
thought it's clever to have like a an
extra label here and an extra style.
Meet Sphinx, but we already have the
company name, we already have, you know,
three different styles basically. If you
count count this here is like four
styles. This just adds a fifth, um,
complicating the hierarchy, not really
adding. It adds a bunch of vertical
space, like we could just like move the
H1 a little bit up and then, you know,
the value didn't trust it. Um, logos
would already be like a little higher.
Um, so this is something that I
increasingly see kind of like LLMs dream
up that just isn't really tight
information hierarchy and graphic
design. Yeah, I I think I going through
these I I keep coming back to the
concept of like it's easy to do
anything. You really have to be um,
opinionated as the human that's in the
loop in designing these around what you
think is the right thing, not just kind
of saying yes, accept all changes.
>> Yeah, you're now the editor.
>> Yes, yes. And and another thing that I'm
noticing happening here is this section
on the right, it just keeps swapping
around. Um, if if this animation here
for a second, this button over here, the
big star kind of button, uh, yeah, like
moves around and and now it's a circle
button. I think that's a button.
Yeah, I guess that's clickable.
Um, and then it's going to come back
over to the left side and it's going to
be a big round rectangle kind of button.
And so we have a lot of different button
styles. I'm not sure why things are
moving like this.
Um, and it's very confusing.
>> not a button. Like, yes, it shows the
hand, but that's a head fake.
>> Yeah, I guess it just moves to the next
thing.
>> it doesn't really, well, I guess it's
kind of like a next button, but then
also on auto advance.
>> very confusing to me. I'm not sure what
it's showing. And and I can't tell
what's happening in this animation
either. It seems to be some kind of
workflow. Um, actually you can just
click anywhere and it it it advances. So
it's not even like this button or the
whole thing is a click target. Yeah. Um,
this is again one of those things where
it's hard for me to imagine a human just
being like, let's have three different
style buttons that every time you click
it, they all reorient and shift and, you
know, it's it feels like the type of
thing that an AI design tool would have
suggested and you would have said,
"Sure, that seems cool."
>> Yeah, it feels like the visual
manifestation of LM hallucinations.
>> [laughter]
>> Um, let's go look at the menu here. Um,
all right.
Pretty standard stuff. I never like when
like the menus kind of like go go away
like in between. Like there's a gap and
then something goes away. What's
happening on the right side of a couple
of those? There were two of those and
there's there's kind of a grid on the
right side, yeah, with an icon.
Is that interactive or anything or is
that
Nope, it's just something the LM thought
was cute. How about if you hover over
on? Yeah, okay, so it's just giving a
different icon. But icon. And the icons
are actually kind of cute.
Um, they seem somewhat original and on
brand here.
Um, I would just never thought to to do
this little little uh, like if if you
want to make a point that on board is
like four circles in the square arranged
in that way, like if that was important,
which it doesn't seem like it, like
you'll probably just put the icon here.
Kind of back to the like why reveal
stuff as you hover that is essential,
but it's probably non-essential, so you
can probably just like leave it out.
What happens when we go further down?
Valued and trusted by Okay, we got a
bunch of lines going everywhere.
All right, so we've got that line
following you down the page pattern
again.
>> And now we're scroll checked. We're
locked into this uh position here of the
website in order to build up this
animation.
Um and I wonder
what it wants to tell me. Like why is it
important to capture me here on this
point to like build out this animation
versus just like showing it already
built in the in the built-out state.
>> And I find the animation is getting all
of my attention rather than what it says
all over here on the left side. So, I'm
not even noticing any of this, and this
is not On the right side, it's not
giving me enough visual information to
communicate something valuable about
what they do or how the product works.
So, I just kind of miss everything over
here on the side. The animation is too
distracting. Yep.
Outcomes.
>> It's also with these with these landing
pages they kind of like build up and
then keep you in a in a section for a
little while. It's really hard to know
when you're like how far into the
>> book you you have read.
>> Yeah. Right? Like if you have a physical
book, you're kind of like, "Oh, halfway
through." Here it's kind of like, I
don't know. Maybe it feels like we're
halfway through, but maybe, you know,
it's going to keep me for another 15
seconds on some some like really rich
build-out um of a of a landing page. So,
the scroll indicator
um
uh is is a really important tool, I
think, kind of like to get uh
a grasp on sort of like the you know,
the landing page. And here it's it's um,
it's completely failing me. Kind of
like, where am I in the website? All
right. Overall, like, visually I I think
it looks nice. Um,
it looks modern. There's a theme that
they're, you know, you've got the orange
accent color. You've got the black as
kind of your primary brand color.
Um, you've got the line that's kind of
following you down. And And my hunch is
that that is uh, sort of reproducing
what the product looks like. Cuz we keep
seeing all these workflows with orange
lines in the product itself. And I think
that's what they're trying to
communicate here. Um, and so, you know,
that makes sense to me. Their headline
up at the top, I think uh, does a great
job of explaining what it is and who
it's for. Um, so I think they really
nailed that. Awesome, Sphinx. Great
work. Next up we got Build Zero. Let's
take a look here. Uh, build custom
internal apps with AI.
Um, so right off the bat, you got some
purple gradients. Yeah. There There
There we go again. Um, and uh, let's see
here. So, the menu nicely morphs. Ooh,
and then my pet peeve. Um, dumb hover
effects. Um, it just doesn't add
anything. This vertical movement is just
distracting and not cool. Uh, it it
pushes also. There's another thing
where, um, because of the effect, it
kind of like horizontally shifts the
whole menu, which kind of just seems
like a bug. Um, and then here's another
like effect. Um, kind of like, the arrow
has to move somehow vertically. Why? Um,
the arrow at least should go to the
right also. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it goes
like backwards. Um, this hover effect
here I don't mind. You know, it's like
it's a black and white button and then
it turns into the primary brand color.
In this case, kind of purple. Like,
that's not a bad hover effect here. This
here pretty bad. Um, then what else have
we got? Uh, we've got a little like
interactive element here. Can click
through it. Ooh. Okay, there seems to be
some like bug with the selection here.
Yeah. Um, if this was
hand-coded, like, no way someone would
have not noticed it. I almost wonder
like if you just one-shot landing pages,
um do you actually go and really like
use it with the same attention detail as
if you if you had like built it um from
scratch. And then because you don't, um
you just ship uh things that are that
you wouldn't have um because you don't
even notice the the little bugs that the
LM made.
>> Um go back to the engineers tab here.
Now, if this is their product, one of
the other things that stands out to me
is this kind of dashboard
um that's got, you know, it's got like
the red, green, blue, purple kind of
callouts up here. That's one of the
hallmark classic things that uh a lot of
uh AI design tools will will actually
create. Um Yeah, every fake dashboard
looks basically like like something like
that. They've got the icons that are a
darker version of the lighter background
color. Um it's it's usually like the
Google colors, you know, like red,
yellow, green, blue.
>> primary, yeah.
>> Yep. So that that that we tend to see a
lot.
Um ideas to working apps in minutes,
transform efficiency.
>> these like kind of like bento bento
boxes um is is not a bad pattern, um
but it's also very non-original.
Um and so this LMs oftentimes kind of
come up with these. Um just like icon at
the top uh and then a bit of text and
you know, uh in this case kind of like a
3x2.
Um
that that's yeah, quite common.
>> Yeah.
Uh we've got some quotes.
We got the purple gradient.
We've got some frequently asked
questions.
And then more gradients. Yeah. You know,
we're I don't know, a few into reviewing
these now and and I think we just keep
seeing a lot of these common patterns
um which I think just highlights how
ubiquitous they've become and how um it
it almost like takes away from the brand
and originality that I think most of
these companies want to create
um when it it has elements that every
other site and every other product has,
too. Yeah, look. I think the really cool
thing about AI tools is that it kind of
frees you from having to kind of like,
you know,
fiddle with like the technical details.
So, you can really work on the hard hard
kind of questions of your offering, of
your product, of your company, such as
like, what are we making? For whom? Why
is this valuable to them, right? And
that's the cool aspect. But, if you then
kind of like just use it um to create uh
what we sometimes call like AI AI slop,
I think this idea of having sort of
like, you know, all this power that you
should use responsibly
>> Yeah. um gets a little bit wasted. And
so, that's the fine line to walk, I
feel, for for builders in 2026. Yeah,
there's there's nothing inherently bad
about this, you know? It's just that
we've been through a few and we've seen
this before, you know? That that's kind
of what it feels like is I've seen this
before. And for any anybody else in the
audience, like, you lose a little bit of
credibility, I think, you know, when
your customers are are viewing your
product and they're saying like, "Uh
this looks like a bunch of other things
I've seen. They probably just used AI to
build this and design it. If that's the
case, like, how good is the actual
product, you know?" Um or are they vibe
coding that, too?
>> Use AI to build this by any means, um
but just kind of like, you know, really
then evaluate the output and uh use AI
to make it even better and more original
and spend the time that you saved one
shotting it or whatever, um to then
really think about your messaging and um
and, you know, designing a wonderful
product that you can then showcase, etc.
Yep, that's great advice. Awesome. Build
zero, thank you.
>> Thank you. All right, next up we got
Zarna, AI Associates for private capital
markets.
Uh we're scroll jacked again.
Oh, yeah.
It's 10x everything, all the things.
Unlocked IRR.
This This site it like I'm in molasses.
It just feels so clunky to use. Not to
mention there just isn't a lot of like
information.
I feel like I have like even this is
deal volume 10x like
Yeah, this all everything 10x just feels
made up
and it feels like there's just so much
space. It feels like I have to scroll
through this molasses forever to get to
anything that helps me understand what
this is.
>> of the things I personally like if we go
to the top right now the
sort of background here uses 100% of the
vertical space
which kind of like almost like this
visually kind of locks me in and then
there's like nothing more
and I hate when when people kind of like
put like scroll down to see more because
like of course we're on a website. Of
course I would know how to scroll down.
So one of the things that I personally
kind of like to interrupt the visual a
little bit is kind of like to start a
landing page like maybe like like this,
you know, now I have kind of like
something here at the top but I know
there's like more good stuff down here.
The the good stuff better be good
because close better deals faster
doesn't you know tell me much but maybe
there's like you know like 10 pixels of
like an awesome hero image kind of like
peaking up or something like that. That
would be cool and then I immediately
without any indicators like no one wants
to kind of like scroll down and discover
it, right? Yeah. Well, we've stopped at
the perfect point here because you
cannot see anything in the top
navigation bar. Yep. It's you better
know what's in the background and if
there's a dynamic background such as a
video playing which might have all sorts
of bright colors. All of a sudden your
bright menu isn't readable anymore.
>> Okay, so this is interesting.
>> So here we picked it up. So it's smart
but it's not smart when there's video
behind it.
>> Yeah, you're right. That is the the
nuance.
Huh.
Okay, these I can't click on.
I would have expected that I could click
on any of these.
Maybe the chevron.
Oh, I don't know what just happened.
Okay, now I can click on those.
Yeah, some of it is clickable and some
of it is not, it appears. And also it's
like jumping me up and down on the
screen.
Um
it seems to just be moving on its own
timer and not letting me do anything,
which is confusing.
Um and again, this is one of those
things where it feels like you wouldn't
intentionally design it to work this
way. Instead, you just It created a
component and you add And it doesn't
happen and it does sometimes work.
>> Only on those nested ones. If you try
the other ones, it doesn't do anything.
Yeah, and this better label here is um
super super hidden. There's sometimes a
chevron, sometimes not. Um
yeah, this feels maybe like a little bit
sloppy.
>> Mhm.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, one agentic layer
generating an investment memo.
Um
yeah, even the little bits of motion
here is the kind of thing that like AI
will just give you that for free and
you're like, yeah, okay, let's go with
that, but you would never create
yourself.
Um yeah, I can't even tell what I'm
supposed to do with any of this. It
hovers and expands a little bit, but
like nothing is clickable.
Uh we got some fade-ins.
This just feels like it's lacking a lot
of like useful information presented in
the right ways.
Um
and at least not purple, though. Got a
lot of blue. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, fit and
finish as well as kind of like meaty
content.
>> Yeah. Um like clear messaging is maybe
lacking a little bit.
Um
the visual style, if I didn't have to
scroll through it, um is actually kind
of fresh.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, like it it reminds me of uh
lovable or or things like that that kind
of have that like grainy zoomed-in kind
of picture in the background.
>> not sure what these boxes um here
represent
uh in the background.
Yeah, some weird artifact. All right,
Zarna. Thank you. Okay, well, thank you
everybody for submitting your sites. And
Raphael, we've seen a bunch of them now.
What are some of your takeaways here?
>> Yeah, I think definitely lots of purple
gradients.
And in general, kind of like a lot of
kind of like the same the same patterns.
You know, we see animations kind of like
for animation's sake just because it's
it's possible now. I would have killed
to have these kind of like AI
superpowers when I built my first
website. So, I I think it's wonderful
that we have them. But you are still
kind of like responsible to not
outsource your thinking to LLMs.
And actually just use them as tools to
get your brilliant ideas, designs,
novel, maybe kind of like interactions
out on the web to dazzle your customers.
And
I think that's what a landing page
should do in the end. It's kind of like
a customer acquisition channel, right?
This is not your product. This is not a
website
as in kind of like a cool thing on the
web. There's space for that as well, but
these are like startup landing pages.
And they're basically acquisition
channels. So, that's how I would really
use these tools. I totally agree with
all of those. Couple others I would add.
You know, one I think it's really
important that you QA everything. It's
very easy to create something, but we
went through and we found, you know,
some quirks or bugs or things like that
here or there, things that were
confusing. Ultimately, you know, you the
founder, you the human need to be the
one that goes through and make sure that
you know, the interactions and
everything else
work right. The other one is um
you know, it's important that your site
and your brand, they come through as the
thing that you want to represent your
company and that originality and
something that feels different. And it's
very easy using the same tools that
everybody else is using to end up in the
same place. You have to be intentional
about ending up in a different place.
And so,
rather than start from what does the AI
spit out and then let's tweak that. I
would start from, you know, what color
palette do we want to use? And what is
our brand? And and how can we feed that
into the system and use that to make
sure we end up at an end goal that
represents us, rather than just going
with, you know, whatever the AI spits
out there. We've seen a lot of people do
that, and I think, you know, like you
said, one of the most powerful tools
ever to create incredible designs and do
things that would have been impossible
or taken forever that you can do just
like this. And so, to use that for ways
that that actually help you move the
lever
upward and make the sites more engaging
and convert better is one of the most
powerful things that you can do. Yeah.
Well, thank you so much for joining,
Raphael. It's been amazing to get your
perspective on all of these, and thank
you to everybody that submitted
websites. Thank you. And we will see you
on the next design review.