Title: Dot Plots: How to Actually See What Your Users Are Doing
Video ID: e5-6rEwzxLs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e5-6rEwzxLs
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-09T14:00:05Z
Duration: PT13M50S
Views: 37904
Likes: 886
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 373

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

One of the biggest mistakes I see
founders make is relying on aggregate
user metrics instead of understanding
how any individual users use their
product. In my last video, I talked
about cohort retention curves and how
you can use those to separate groups of
users and track what they do over time
throughout using your product. And I
think that's the best tool that you've
got to figure out if people keep using
your product. But what you don't know is
how are they using your product? How are
they interacting? What features are they
using? What's the frequency of use?
What's the the pacing of how they use
the product? And most founders just like
ignore this. But I think it's the most
important signal to figure out if you've
built something that people want. So you
want to be able to look at what
individual users are doing. But that's a
lot, right? if you even have like 10 or
20 users, um it's pretty challenging to
just tail the logs and watch every event
that every user is doing. So with
aggregate data, the graphs that we're
all used to talking about, things like
DAUs or MAUs, um these lump all of your
users together, and you can't really get
a sense of what any individual user is
doing. And if you have any amount of
growth, those graphs tend to be going up
and to the right. um even if users
aren't actually enjoying using your
product. So today I want to tell you
about a tool that we came to in my
startup that allows you to understand
what's going on with individual users
while also giving you a big picture view
of how your entire product is performing
and we call it the dot plot. So let me
show you what a dot plot looks like.
Based on the name you can figure out
probably involves dots. What you
basically do is just make a
two-dimensional grid like a spreadsheet
where there are a bunch of columns and a
bunch of rows. Each row represents one
individual user. If I'm one of the
users, I'll I'll write my name here.
Dave, I'm one of the users. Uh, and
every other user of your product gets
their own row.
And then every column represents a time
period. I think days are usually the
right thing to use for your product, but
it probably depends a bit on the nature
of your product. So, let's just draw in
the days. I'll just do Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. And you can
make this as big or as small as you
want. For the sake of this example, I'll
just do like a week or two of days just
to show you what's going on here. And
then the idea, it's called a dot plot,
is you put some dots in each of the
cells. You want to pick an event that
your user does in the process of using
your product that you think represents
value in the product. Maybe it's um you
know sharing a photo if you're building
a photo app or listening to a song if
you're building a music app or
processing an invoice if you're building
a B2B invoice processing product and you
can just put a dot for each day that
each user uses the product. Let's say
we're Spotify and we're building a music
streaming app and we want to see how our
users are using it. Let's pick the event
that we're going to chart here being
listen to a song. So anytime a user
listen to a song during a day we're
going to put a dot. Uh so for me let's
say I
listen to Spotify song on Monday and
Tuesday and not on on Wednesday but
Thursday and Friday again and then maybe
again on Monday and Wednesday. Another
thing you can do um to make a record of
the first day that a user used a
product, the day that they onboarded,
you can put another symbol like let's
say we on a user's first day we'll just
draw a little ring around the dot like
that just to give us a little bit more
signal. And what you'll eventually start
seeing is a pretty high density
visualization of individual users and
their usage over time. What's really
cool about this is it lets you figure
out patterns
that you probably would not have seen
with your human brain just looking at
aggregate charts or looking at
individual user logs. Okay, so let's
look at this example I've just drawn.
Um, for our Spotify app, what do we see?
What patterns have emerged now that we
can see individual users and their own
behavior? Well, one thing I see is it
seems like there's a set of people who
use the product on weekdays, right?
We've got myself, we've got user number
three here, user four used it on a
Monday, user six used it during the
week, and there's a couple users who
seem to kind of only use it on the
weekends. That's an interesting
observation that might help me redesign
my product in a different way or target
different users. Maybe understand which
users are the most valuable ones to me.
Do I want the weekday worktime listeners
or do I want the weekend users? We would
have no idea about this if we didn't
have a dot plot visualization like this.
Another thing I can see is a a measure
of retention. Like do we see a lot of
users like user 4 that try the app on
one day and then never come back? If we
see that on a bunch of our rows, we have
an idea of a potential problem that
we've got in our onboarding or other
things. As you get more sophisticated
with dot plots, you can make them as
intricate as you want. At Bump, we had
different symbols that we would put into
these cells. So, we knew whether you
shared your contact information using
Bump or if you shared a photo. And it
gives you a lot more granularity, and
you can kind of go as deep as you want
on this. This idea of dot plots might be
familiar to some of you. You've probably
seen it at the top of GitHub pages. Um,
this is basically what a GitHub graph
looks like. They've just wrapped the
days around per week. Another thing you
can do is instead of just tracking user
actions, you can track user state. So,
was this user using an iPhone or an
Android phone? Uh, were they on the web?
Was this user coming from the United
States or a different country? Sometimes
you have demographic information about
your users. Is this a user that makes a
lot of money or is this a college kid
that uh you just you just got on, you
know, Reddit or something? You can
encode those states with other symbols
or shading the cells different colors.
You can write things over here. So like
I might say, you know, this is a iOS
user and this is an iOS user, but these
ones are Androids. And another thing you
can do then is sort your rows based on
whatever attributes you want to sort
them by. So you might say, I only want
to look at iOS users first, or I only
want to look at users whose first time
using the app was this Monday. So let's
resort so we only see people that have
rings around their first day. What you
find when you look at this in aggregate,
you can then kind of zoom out and see an
entire page of these. Is your brain will
start to notice these patterns in a way
that you would never have figured out on
your own. uh op priori. This is actually
an idea that I remember hearing about 10
years ago from Max Levchin, one of the
founders of PayPal. They had a big fraud
problem at PayPal when they first
launched, but they didn't know the
patterns to look for. So, what they did
instead is build a visualization, a
graph of all the transactions that were
happening on PayPal. And they just had
humans sit and stare at screens of these
drawings and graphs. And while the
humans didn't know what exactly was
going on, they were able to look at the
screen and say that thing happening
there, that's different and uh probably
fraud. And then they would go and dig in
to that. It's kind of the same idea with
dot plots. You can look at these these
charts and figure out, huh, there's
something going on with users. I see
this pattern emerging. And then you can
go dig into it a lot deeper. So to
illustrate the point I was talking about
where dot plots give you a lot more
granularity about what's going on with
your users, let's draw the DAU graph for
these users. So what you would have seen
had you only been looking at your DAU
graph. I'll just draw it on top of here
to illustrate.
So again like imagine each of these days
is the same day above. The DAU graph
here looks like this.
On day one it's two
On day two, it's three.
On day three, it's two.
Two. Two. Two. Two. One. Zero. One.
So, if you were just looking at DAUs,
this is the graph you would see. And it
really doesn't tell you all that much.
It basically tells you, yeah, we're not
growing. We have some users. Instead,
looking at the dot plot, we have a much
richer understanding of our users. We
know something about their behavior,
maybe something about their lives. We
probably have inferred from this that
these people that use it during the
week, probably they're doing it at the
office or in some other place where they
can listen to music every single day of
the work week. And again, you can go a
lot deeper on this. And if you change
the dots to be different symbols, for
example, in in our Spotify example, we
could choose to represent different
features of the product. Let's say if a
if a user uses search in Spotify, we'll
put a little S next to it. Or if they
use maybe a playlist, they join a public
playlist. Let's say we could put a P
there. And you might start to see
patterns where specific features maybe
drive behaviors in the product that you
actually want. Let's just say for the
sake of argument that we see this one
user here that joined a public playlist.
they then have a string of many many
consecutive days of using the product.
We could then infer like oh maybe the
playlist feature is really causal to
having people be really active in our
product. This is the sort of stuff that
you can learn with dot plots. So what's
really great for most founders you have
a very small number of users at the
beginning and so you can literally look
at every single user of your product on
every single day they've ever used it
and it all fits on one screen on your
monitor. Um, that's really great, but it
actually does scale to when you have
thousands or millions or billions of
users. This is a tool that we used at
Google Photos, uh, when we had well more
than a billion users. And the idea is
you can just choose to sample your users
and represent them on a dot plot however
you want. So, we would have days where
we print out dozens of these pieces of
paper with dot plots on them for
different samples of our user base. I
would print out a piece of paper and
hand one of our team members like,
"Here's the iOS users in France. I want
you to understand what they're doing."
And I would hand another piece of paper
to somebody else and say, "These are the
users on web in the United States who
make more than $80,000 a year. Let's see
what they're up to." And we would have
days where we just sit in the office and
look at these dot plots and try to draw
conclusions about what's going on with
our users. So, you might be thinking to
yourself, "This is cool, Dave, but uh
we're a B2B product and we just sell
seats to businesses and they pay for And
so I that's all that matters, right?
Turns out that doc plots could be really
useful to you, too. Let me give you a
specific example. I worked with a
company in the most recent YC batch uh
that had a very name brand customer that
signed up and bought their product. I
think it was like a $80,000 a year
contract. Um they onboarded the company.
The company said they wanted 10 seats
and later the company churned. Let me
show you what they could have figured
out had they been using dot plots. So
this is what it actually looked like.
The company bought 10 seats, but only
three seats ever activated. Only three
of those people ever tried the product.
And if you look at their usage, they
weren't getting a lot of value from it.
Nobody used it more than 2 days per
week. Um, and it looks like pretty
sporadic usage. And it turns out what
happened is the company was in the
state. The champion had gotten excited
about this product and bought it. And
then the champion left the company. And
as soon as the champion left, a new
person came in and they said, "Why are
we using this software? We're going to
churn." And so they opted out of a
renewal clause at the last moment. The
company could have known that this
contract was in jeopardy by looking at
the dot plot. So there's a few ways you
can misuse dot plots. U the number one
thing is to just chart the wrong event.
A lot of founders might want to uh
populate their dot plot with the easiest
way to populate it so it feels good and
you see a lot of dots. Maybe you'll pick
like opened the app or signed in to the
product. Those are pretty bad events to
choose because they don't really measure
whether the user is getting real value.
So, I suggest you pick something that
actually represents value being created
for the user. Listen to a song, shared a
photo, um something like that that's a
real event. The other mistake you can
make is picking a time period that's too
wide. Sometimes founders want to make it
look better and they pick weeks, like
week one, week two, week three. it's way
harder to figure out what's actually
going on unless you look at it at the
day or maybe even like subday
granularity. So I would go so far as to
say until you have hundreds of users,
the dot plot could be your only
dashboard. What's great about dot plots
is they're just a logs visualization
tool. There's no fancy computations
happening here. You basically just need
to parse your logs and put them into a
2D grid. This is a thing that modern AI
coding tools can whip up in like 10
minutes. These are best used in
conjunction with cohort retention
curves. Cohort retention curves teach
you in aggregate whether groups of users
that you acquire stick with you over
time. That's very important. You should
definitely be measuring that. But the
dot plot shows you how those users are
actually using your product. And they
give you the color to go ask the right
questions of your users, to go build the
right features, to fix things that are
broken in your product that you would
never learn by looking at aggregate
metrics. So, cohort retention curves and
dot plots are, in my experience, two of
the most important tools that you've got
to understand your users. Good luck.