Title: Going In Deep On Data | YC Paper Club
Video ID: IfoPg2QefF8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IfoPg2QefF8
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-08-20T14:00:12Z
Duration: PT52M35S
Views: 43656
Likes: 668
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1442

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
Welcome to YC data club this time. I
hope you guys like the little picture
that we have this time. Paul Graham
didn't like that I was slacking off in
my little crown over there, but he does
know know my name now, so that's good.
All right, so why data? Why does it why
does data warrant uh its own night to
talk about? Um, in 2016 I left my PhD
program and I started focal systems. And
back then the notion was that data is
commodity. I already have downloaded
imageet. How much more data do I
possibly need? And there was lots of
chatter about scale being worth a
billion dollars. There's no chance. And
there was a lot of VCs except who was
the guy that did scale series A? I think
it was Levy at Excel. Um, besides him,
everyone said the terminal value of data
businesses was zero dollars. And since
then, I think it's like a hundred
billion dollars in market cap creation.
So, rest assured, the entire VC uh
community has changed their tune on
that. And why? Well, the interview
question I would typically ask at Focal,
I still ran the deep learning team uh
even until I left for nine years later
was um you know, let's say I had to
interview these PhDs uh from Stanford or
MIT, super smart people, and I would say
okay, you have you trained your model,
you're at 85% F1 score on hot dog, not
hot dog. What do you do next?
And if your answer was, oh, I would go
read some papers. I would like try Reu
versus Gellu. I would like add more
layers. I do like nope. Next. Literally
no. No. No. No. No. And the reason why
is because you have to look at the data.
The correct answer is you look at the
data. You classifi look at all the false
positives. You look at all the false
negatives. You put them in purto
buckets. You say, "What's the biggest
issue?" And for us, for in stock, out of
stock, it's like, "Okay, it's when the
fridge has some fog on it. We can't see
through the fog or when there's a person
in the way or when something else is
happening." like the the number of
layers didn't was not going to change if
there's a person in the way and you
can't possibly tell if there's an in
stock or out of stock. And so it's just
looking at data and Andre I would say
was the most on this um and he famously
did the first measurement of what human
level is on ImageNet and where he
actually looked through and tried to see
how good he could be. And we're not that
good. I can't tell the difference
between Eskimo sheep dog and uh Siberian
husky. I'm not that I'm I'm not good at
that. And like 30 40% of imageet is dogs
are types of dogs. And like people kind
of don't know that stuff. And so the
data that you're training on ends up
being in much more important than the
architecture itself especially when the
architecture is very expressive. And so
in your PhD he says he spent maybe uh 5%
of his time thinking about data um and
95% of his times focus on the
architecture. And then when you go into
production that flips and I would say he
was saying 25 74% I think nowadays it's
like 3% 97%. And it's really about the
data now that we have the transformer uh
and it works really well. And so and why
is this why does the data matter so
much? It's because in your nice little
imageet train set everything is really
nice. The train distribution is
beautiful. It's amazing. And then when
you launch it into production which
raise your hand if you've ever had this
experience.
that happens and then you start getting
a bunch of points in in in the in the
test distribution that you didn't have
in the train and the model you know
pukes itself and can't it doesn't work.
So to automate the economy if this is
the GDP val uh we need both expert data
and expert RL environments RL
environments for the verifiable uh
rewards and then for the pref style data
like very subjective do I do you like
this design do you not like this design
is this more usable or less usable you
you may the code may work but the coding
style is awful and it's unmaintainable
code for things like medical like two
doctors don't agree on the
answer for a given patient and and same
thing with judges. Um and so these are
preference style answers and that runs a
lot of the economy and the right way to
think about data sets and our
environments for sure is these are
products. If you talk to Greg at ArcGI,
the amount of craftsmanship that goes
into each game that Prime Intellect just
crushed um to be fair is incredible.
It's very very difficult to make these
data sets really really good fully
comprehensive and even for focal such a
simple thing of like in stock and out of
stock the amount of time that was spent
and how do we handle product pushers
like it looks like a product um but it's
just pushing product to to the front and
so how do should should we have that be
a separate uh uh class in the ontology
or should we classify that as an out of
stock because it technically is an out
of stock but it's going to confuse the
model because an out of stock and a
product look very
Um, so how do you handle all this stuff?
It's very very difficult. Um, and a lot
of people think that they're just zip
files and it's just really not. And the
other thing too that is I I deal with a
lot in the in the batch is let's say you
are automating Salesforce, right? And
you have a bunch of traces and you have
screen captures of people using
Salesforce. So you have 100 billion
hours. You have all the data that you
could possibly capture. Then Salesforce
changes the UI.
Then what? You better get some more
data, right? Because it's not going to
work. And so you can have all the data,
you still need more data. And so this
idea that it was going to the terminal
value is going to be zero is just so so
wrong. Brendan Emer just just presented
this slide at Sequoia and I really agree
with it. It is the bottleneck right now.
It is not the architecture. It is not
GPUs. It is not watts. Um it's largely
why does chat GBT still uh you know I
just did this analysis and posted on my
Twitter. Um, there's no model gets beats
random on predicting next seven-day
returns on the S&P. Literally, if you
just like roll a coin is better than
every single AI model that you can use
in production right now. Um, and so if
we had a bunch of traces from like
Goldman Sachs traders that are
definitely better than random, I would
think that they would do better, but
they don't have that. And so, how do you
get there? Same thing with accountants,
doctors, lawyers. you need experts on
each one of these uh domains for us to
uh match or exceed human uh capabilities
on it. And like I said, in the last 10
years, despite most venture capitalists
turning a blind eye to this, um it's
produced over hundred billion dollars of
market cap in the last 10 years. It's
probably been one of YC's uh best
categories that we've invested in. And
so the mental model, what is the right
mental model to think about this? Um I
don't know, but I propose something
here. If I were Apple and I manufactured
these things and I wanted them to be
able to deliver groceries to your door
or to um bring a a burrito to your house
or bring a car and pick you up or turn
it on to a flashlight or give you
directions, you need these things called
apps.
And if you want the LLM to be a good
doctor, accountant, lawyer, carpenter,
um trader, uh or therapist, right? a lot
of people using for that as well. um
you're going to need data in RL
environments and if you don't have
upto-date very good curated data then
your LM can't do those things and so may
and so a lot of people say like how many
possible data companies can we have in
this space and the answer is how many
apps do you have in your phone that's
probably the answer I really do think
about it like that and then even better
on this analogy is does it make sense
for there to be an Instacart only for
Apple and an Instacart only for Android
or should probably just be one company
or should Apple get into the Instacart
business and start delivering groceries?
Doesn't make any sense. And so some of
these it makes sense like Apple should
and Android should have a flashlight
functionality because that's kind of
easy to do. But like for a lot of things
it's really really difficult to stand up
the entire Instacart network and then
start competing with Instacart if you're
Apple. Like why? Just that's not what
you are great at. And in the same way
going really deep into being a great
doctor like dealing with HIPPA and all
that stuff. Should Anthropic uh uh um
OpenAI, uh Google, Apple, all these
companies all get really great on
curating an AI doctor or should you just
like use one company that does a great
job of creating a environment, has a
network of doctors, curates all this
prep data, uh you know, parallel uh data
for given a specific patient. here's one
trajectory, here's another trajectory,
and and a doctor is preferring one or
the other. Probably just do that. Have
one company that just focuses just on
that. And that's what we're seeing. All
right. I'm very excited by uh the
speakers that we have uh tonight. Um May
couldn't make it. She had got sick
unfortunately. We're going to try to
squeeze her into the next one. Um but we
have uh Vincent Chen, who is a a Hazy
alumni, one one of the founding team
members of Snorkel. uh grew it to a
billion dollar market cap now and and
well beyond I think. Vololo, founder of
Inception Labs, Cornell professor and
expert surfer.
Um and then Shane uh MIT PhD uh student
just defended focused on pre-training uh
founded the data provenence initiative
and then recently joined anthropic.
Please help me give a round of applause
to this our speakers. [applause]
and Franuis.
>> Wonderful. Thank you, Francois, for the
awesome introduction and thank you for
giving data its flowers. I feel like
we've been trying to shout from the
roofs about this and uh it's awesome to
see it come front and center these days.
My name is Vincent. I'm one of the
founding team members at Snorkel. I uh
started our uh Frontier Lab business at
the company and now I lead research on
our benchmarks and evaluation at uh the
company. I'm going to talk about uh
scaling expert supervision. Um, and I'll
talk about it. I'm cheating a little
bit, but I'll talk about a few research
themes and how they've evolved over the
years. We've been working on data for
over a decade now at Snorkel, dating
back to our roots at the Stanford AI
lab. And um our key thesis is that
scaling expertise, actually giving
leverage to experts in the field,
doctors, clinicians, um journalists,
people who actually have the spec in
their head for what good looks like is
the real bottleneck for building really
effective data sets. And effectively,
that's what all of our research is about
at the company. So I'll talk to you a
little bit about that. As I mentioned,
we're a frontier lab focused on data in
particular. Um we're uh super excited to
be you know partnered with uh
effectively every global frontier lab
and uh Frontier um you know Fortune 10
enterprises uh on the data problem in
particular and each one of these
engagements again is anchored on this
key bottleneck of scaling expertise. How
do we actually get the judgment and
knowledge out of these people's heads
and into the data sets that they're
working on?
And so I first want to start by framing
the problem and how it's evolved over
time. Expert supervision, right? The
process of taking what is in experts
heads, what is in messy documents or
knowledge corpuses um and putting it
into really effective data is a real
bottleneck. There's a real process that
goes from okay this is raw data to
something that can that can be used for
evaluation and training and this has
evolved over time right data 1.0 know as
I'll call it was uh basic labeling in Q
uh you know for question answering for
example right these might have been
thumbs up thumbs down against uh kind of
preference labels um basic you know
prompt and response pairs and you know
let's say it's 30 seconds of human
judgment right to produce one of these
labels as Frantois alluded to the shape
of data today is evolving significantly
right now we have entire worlds that
we're building against um that represent
tasks and rubrics and verifiers and
really nuance grading mechanisms all
packaged in Docker environments um that
actually need to represent the types of
spaces that these agents are going to
operate in. And these could take you
know uh single digit to you know triple
digits of hours for humans to develop on
their own. And so the key bottleneck
here is really how do we scale expertise
so that we can effectively build these
types of data sets when experts you know
are are one there are only so many of
these experts in the world with
increasing complexity and they only have
so much time in a day. And so let's
start with data 1.0. I know right uh
this is a problem that I believe still
exists today but when we started snorkel
um I want to you know share a little bit
about how we thought about this problem
right the the problem of manual labeling
right with the imageet example that
Francois gave um there are a bunch of
problems right uh one it's not a
scalable approach um think of the cost
of manual labeling as an O of problem
for every single data point you need a
manual label you need um new cognitive
effort to actually develop that two
these types of approaches aren't robust
to noise right you can Imagine that the
only way to actually uh reduce noise in
these settings is to um you know uh
introduce redundancy. So you need a k
byn um relabeling effort to actually uh
you know reduce noise in these settings
with changes in spec you know schema
task definition. You need to start from
zero and critically there's no
provenence. There's no notion of what
what is my rationale? How did I actually
think about this problem? And so this
was the key challenge that we faced you
know up to a decade ago and still face
to today in many ways where the problem
of manual labeling only um compounds in
expert domains. Think of a you know MD
PhD or a cardiologist in a very niche
subdomain. How do you actually get them
to produce these large large corpuses of
MRI data sets or you know EHR uh data?
Uh it's actually fundamentally
intractable in a lot of these settings.
And so that is the key problem to solve
in some of these um kind of manual uh uh
labeling settings. And so the the line
of work that we worked on here uh we
called kind of data programming. Our CEO
Alex was was a kind of grad student at
the time and we um all kind of
contributed to this work. The key
intuition here was we want to encode
expert supervision in software and
there's a few benefits when you do that
right you get the scale of software. You
now get to label data programmatically.
You get the adaptability of software.
you can refactor it and adjust it over
time as your spec changes and um
critically you can actually audit it and
have conversations about it and
collaborate on it. Um and so the you
know in a nutshell right a bunch of our
kind of key um grad grad school work in
a in a nutshell was was this uh one on
the left hand side um the main idea here
was um to first model expertise as uh
labeling functions right so this could
be a number of different forms this is a
pretty general uh abstraction but the
main idea is um if you express the
ration or reasons why people are
labeling spam versus not spam into
specific heruristics this um helps get
that knowledge out of people's heads and
into a form factor that's actually way
more reproducible and scalable. Number
two, um, in the middle, the challenge
with this is obviously that, uh, these
signals, uh, these sources of
supervision overlap. They're inaccurate.
Um, and so we introduce a bunch of
theory and work to actually, um, work
through this notion of weak supervision,
right? How do you actually understand
quality in these settings where uh,
signals are overlapping and your sources
are are weak or aren't, you know, fully
ground truth? And at the end of this um
taking these uh D noiseis signals and
using them in kind of end models that
are noise aware help generalize this
beyond um you know the coverage of the
initial labeling functions. So one click
down you know the intuition behind some
of this and the label model without
getting into too much of the of the gory
details. Um number one the goal here is
to model um each voters's accuracy in a
fully unsupervised way. So the analogy I
like to share is hey you have a number
of students in your class with different
levels of skill or quality. Um you don't
have a grading key, you don't have an
answer key. How do you estimate the true
ground truth answer when you only have
the votes from each of these students?
And so that's the fundamental kind of
modeling problem you're trying to
introduce here. Um you want to learn
this noise model and understand each
source's um quality effectively. you
know, given that you don't have any
ground truth in the first place. So, uh,
step one again is to kind of learn the
voters's accuracy. Step two, this is
this is Baze, right? You're trying to
kind of compute the the probability um
of of the ground truth solution given
each one of those voters um uh uh kind
of actual votes. Um, and then three, if
you train a kind of noiseaware model,
um, you're able to actually extend the
coverage of this label model and
minimize some of the noise in in uh,
broader distributions and and scale this
a lot more effectively. So, I'll zoom
out for a sec. Right? The main intuition
here was a lot of our work early days
was about scaling expertise via
introducing
labels and expert judgment as software.
And one of the key bottlenecks there was
actually denoising the sources of signal
that these came from in in in a a regime
where you were missing ground truth and
um you know some of these techniques uh
we still use today in a lot of our kind
of production settings.
So I want to talk briefly about data
2.0. Now you know as the surface area
for data and frontier progress has
expanded um it's grown in uh complexity
and importance as well. And so let's
let's use coding as an example here. you
know, I have plotted on the x-axis uh
complexity, right? Input complexity, how
complex are your prompts and the specs
that you're giving models, output
complexity, environment complexity, are
you working in just Q&A settings now, or
are they fundamentally new, you know, uh
environments where you give it YOLO
access to your desktop? And on the
Y-axis, we have sequence length. How
long are these agents actually working
in practice? Now, you might think for a
domain like software or coding that uh
the eval are actually saturated, the
data is actually saturated. And I would
push to uh contend that as the frontier
advances, the data challenges actually
continue to grow, right? We're we've
seen basic eval like human eval saturate
at this point, which is which is true,
but we're still seeing, you know, um a
big spectrum of uh you know, terminal
based agents continue to grow. Uh
program bench, you know, I think the
latest model just cracked 1%. Um we
introduced the benchmark called senior
SWE, which I'll talk about in a second.
But as the complexity and responsibility
of agents, you know, grows, the
importance of data that you're uh
producing to both train and evaluate
these models also grows. With this in
mind, I want to anchor on some recent
work that we've done uh from a little
bit uh later than the last decade um
which was a senior SWEBench. And so the
the key here, we actually uh were very
humbled and privileged to work with the
original SWEBench team out of out of
Princeton on this. Um the key idea here
was we're already using coding agents
like software uh like senior engineers.
We're vibe coding. We're trusting them
to make architectural decisions to
refactor entire swaths of of code, but
we don't have good ways to evaluate
them. We're still evaluating them as as
junior engineers. And so the key
challenge we wanted to solve here was
that we wanted to build a benchmark. We
wanted to build data sets that were
really representative of actual work
that senior engineers would produce. We
wanted to scale the expertise needed to
produce and build these types of data
sets and uh build a really highquality
benchmark that uh represented all of
these factors. And so I'll talk you
through some of the methodology we used
to get here. Obviously we won't get
through everything but um you know
hopefully build some intuition for how
some of the methods we've used have have
evolved over time. And so a little bit
about the task themselves, right? So uh
in senior Sweetbench um the task design
specifically required many points of
expert supervision or expert touch
points. So on the left hand side uh this
is a harbor task. We're big fans of
harbor as an eval um uh framework. Um
these are instructions that are natural
language instructions. So the the key
diff here was instead of representing
you know if you're familiar with a
Swedebench or or kind of traditional
coding benchmarks if you actually look
at the data if you actually look at the
tasks a lot of the samples are very
oversp specified very kind of EDDD level
um you know guidance for what to do what
not to do we wanted to represent more
realistic higher level abstractions in
terms of how we actually interact with
these agents in practice so more of a
Slack message here's a here's a dump of
logs you know figure out what to do with
it or um here's a few users stories
about an idea that I have. Um can you
help me implement this? So actually
injecting expertise and realism into the
instructions was a super non-trivial
part of building this. Um on the right
hand side um you see a whole reward
phase which we uh spent a lot of time
designing and specifically um
calibrating as well. I'll go into a
little bit more detail but the intuition
here is we wanted to capture a number of
different components of how you actually
measure these agents in practice. So not
just um is this correct or mergeable but
does this exhibit taste? Does this
exhibit what you'd trust a staff or
senior or principal level engineer to
actually do in your codebase uh
completely unsupervised? Let's go a
click deeper into the specific uh reward
design. Um and this was a bit nuance and
again an area where we wanted to get
creative in scaling expertise. So we had
you know snorkel engineers and
researchers. We have a really strong
network of very senior principal staff
level engineers um but not unlimited
time. And so we wanted to find ways to
scale their intuition and efforts rather
than having them handgrade every single
one of these samples and agent
trajectories that came out of this. So
the axis we tried to articulate here um
there there's a trade-off between
reliability and flexib uh flexibility
when it comes to traditional verifiers
and rewards especially in the software
domain. On the top you have um high
reliability and low flexibility. These
are pre-written verifiers and think of
these as unit tests, right? These are
tests that reliably execute against your
codebase. They're um actually um running
against the code so you know that
they're doing the thing. Um but the
challenge is they don't actually adapt
to any solution, right? If you have um a
you know post/profile implementation
versus a um you know another way to
implement a way to kind of update a
user's information, you might actually
have a false negative in the verifier,
right? might actually penalize behavior
that is fully okay and fully valid um if
you're too constrained in your
verification approach. And so on the
other side of the spectrum, right, low
reliability, high flexibility, you have
LLM judges, right? This is a very common
and effective way in many cases to
actually adapt to different solution
shapes, right? The um code can be a
little bit more flexible. uh you're
actually just asking an agent or LLM to
look at the code and specifically um you
know grade it uh using its own kind of
uh calibrated or unccalibrated
intuition. Um and obviously the
challenge here is that this can be
really unreliable because you're um not
really exercising any of the solutions.
You're not exercising the code path
directly. You might be just, you know,
asking the agent to kind of take a
glance at the code and it's it's hard to
actually uh control for false positives
here, right? Where you may o overreward
plausible but incorrect solutions. And
so we found a middle ground for this
which I'll go into a little bit more
detail and introduced this notion of a
validation agent uh which specifically
tried to capture and scale the expertise
of a bunch of our senior researchers and
engineers and experts in our community
and and network um to one express the
user stories or kind of specification of
what they thought good looked like and
two use that specification to then write
deterministic tests against the code
surface that was actually relevant to
you know the solution space. So um a
simple idea but did take a lot of
calibration and effort to actually um
come up with this notion of hey how do
we actually capture the expertise of of
someone who's you know defining user
stories for a particular task while
actually exercising the real code path.
So again in a little bit more detail
right what does this actually look like
in practice the input to this validation
agent think hey I have codeex I have uh
clawed code it generates a patch against
my instruction set the expert produces
what we call the validation spec so this
was just a few bullet points think a
slack message of okay here are my user
stories here are a few you know uh
functional or non-functional
requirements not so much that it was
oversp specified and overly prescriptive
about a specific solution but uh high
level enough so that it to capture the
space of you know what we wanted the
model to do or not do. We then had a
validation agent take the patch and the
validation spec and specifically in uh
implement test scripts. So these were uh
deterministic um scripts that would uh
execute and and run over the code
itself. And at the end of this, we would
uh score against the both both the
execution and use a judge um to ensure
that the runs were were kind of sane or
you know uh resulted in kind of
collusion or reward hacking or some sort
of behavior that we thought was um not
valid for the trial. And so this this
idea of encoding expertise in a way that
um was still scalable was really the
crux of how we tried to design this
validation agent to map to dynamic
implementations right in the specific
codebase. Um and so we did a lot of work
actually to calibrate this. We aligned
these against you know specific test
engineers internally and in our network.
Um we introduced LLM judges that
measured things like uh fidelity,
completeness, collusion and ultimately
each test was parameterized so that um
you know in the validation spec you you
can think of it as like a ramble of kind
of um hey what is the shape of the type
of use cases edge cases I want to
capture without having to write you know
the full spec at the end or the the full
tests you know at the end of the day
which could take days to weeks to
months.
So this is um live now and one thing I
want to uh point out before you know
talking about the results which are kind
of fun. Um we introduced this notion of
a tasteful pass. Um this is a new metric
that we introduced in this benchmark to
specifically measure not just
correctness or mergeability but a more
nuanced definition of is this actually
code that aligns to your codebased
practices. Does this actually map to um
you know how a senior engineer would act
in practice? Does it minimize bloat in
terms of patch size? Um we merged that
with uh notions of correctness to
actually um rank a bunch of these models
and remarkably um and we double and
triple check this uh Fable, Opus and
Soul are all tied for first place as of
uh last week. This is pretty exciting
because it means that um you know the
Paro Frontier is definitely getting
pushed in these cases, but this is a
kind of live dashboard and a living
benchmark that we've been keeping up to
date. So definitely reach out and check
it out if you have um if you're curious
about it. This is some of our recent
work um on this topic.
And so I want to definitely give some
flowers to the team here. Henry, our
co-founder, uh was the was the lead
here. We were very humbled to work with
Cararthik's group at Princeton who led
the original SweetBench and uh our chief
scientist Fred uh who has the lab over
at uh uh Wisconsin Madison. Um and some
of his students were also involved. And
so I'll zoom out and and wrap up here.
Um as we enter data point 2.0, this is
maybe the the takeaway here. As we enter
data 2.0 know and see a lot more
complexity. We need a lot more data
research, right? It's not just a problem
of throwing humans at these tasks. These
days, we need a lot of thoughtful design
to give these experts, software
engineers, doctors, uh lawyers, people
who actually understand the spec
leverage to exercise their own
supervision and judgment in these data
sets. And um you know, this this slide
at least shows a view of all the axes
that complexity is going to continue to
grow in, right? The environments are
going to get more complex and dynamic.
the outputs are going to get more and
more unverifiable and nuanced and
subjective and the autonomy of these
agents are going to also continue to
extend and you could imagine every one
of these axes introduces compounding
complexity and so it's really a research
question. It's really a research problem
to think through how do we scale and um
provide experts more judgment and that's
really what we're focused on and
encourage the community to to work on as
well. And so here's a very concrete ask.
Uh we need more benchmarks and we think
this is actually a really high lever way
for folks to drive new data research.
We're super humbled to to work with a
number of the folks on the screen from
agents/exam um over at Berkeley
continual learning bench oorld uh the
terminal bench folks. Um we've learned a
lot working with these folks and um in
general we're we're uh very excited to
see a lot more benchmarks and so we like
to put our money where our mouth is. We
have this notion of a open benchmarks
grants. Um hopefully this is us actually
a research a resource to folks in the
community. We're very excited to you
know accelerate and and focus on more
research that is out there and help you
accelerate your data devel data
development and partner as a as a
research team. But um yeah, we're really
excited about the future of benchmarks
and data for data 2.0 and thanks so
much. [applause]
>> All right, next up we have Volo.
>> Uh okay, great. Thank you for having me.
Super excited to be here today to tell
you about some of our uh work some of
the work that we've been doing at
Inception on training uh real world
large scale diffusion language models uh
with uh my co-founders Stephano and
Aditia and a really really talented team
of engineers and researchers. So in
short uh what we're working on is a new
generation of language models that is
powered by diffusion. And what that
means is that instead of generating
tokens one at a time sequentially left
to right, a diffusion model starts by
generating tokens all at once uh
starting from an initial guess of the
sequence. So starting from some some
kind of noisy initial version of the
output and then producing all the tokens
in parallel over multiple steps of
refinement. We're very excited about
this technology. we think is going to be
the future of language models. And in
particular, a very important advantage
these models have today is speed.
Because these models can produce
multiple tokens per step, they can
produce many more tokens per second and
they can reach speeds at over a thousand
tokens per second uh which is way beyond
what is achievable with uh traditional
ultra reagressive modeling. There's all
kinds of applications for ultraast
inference in real time AI. One area that
we've been working in uh a lot is
real-time voice. Um so voice agents for
example uh in customer support uh but
also in other domains like education. Uh
so these are agents that uh synthesize
voice and talk to you in real time.
Usually uh the voice uh state-of-the-art
voice pipelines are still built on a
cascaded architecture where you have a
uh speech to text system, a texttospech
system at the output and at the middle
you have an LLM. The overall latency of
the system is highly bottlenecked by the
LLM. This is a critical critical piece
of this workflow. And if you can make
LMS go much faster, if they can go at
1,000 tokens per second like our Mercury
2 models are able to achieve, then you
can make real-time voice interactions
feel more seamless or you can deploy a
bigger model or you can get the model to
reason for longer which will then
significantly improve your quality. So
this is a slide that shows the
performance of Mercury 2 on voice
benchmarks compared to other models. And
what you see is Mercury 2 draws a a new
parto frontier of quality and uh and
latency. So latency on the x-axis,
quality on the y-axis. Uh so we have a a
new parameter frontier that's achievable
with a fusion. I also want to highlight
some other models here that are
baselines. So here for example we have a
uh 120 billion parameter GPOSS model
running on cerebras and a diffusion
mercury model can achieve both higher
quality at least as measured here by
tobench and I'm going to argue on real
data as well uh and it can also run
faster. So this is really exciting
because uh so again three are
specialized chips uh designed and built
to make other aggressive models run
really fast. If you have diffusion, you
can achieve similar speeds on GPUs by
having more intelligent software. So you
can build software to make models really
fast instead of hardware. That's really
exciting. You can deploy these models on
uh on on a lot more GPUs that are more
easily available.
Um but to build a really good voice
models, algorithms and diffusion is one
component, but the other part that's
really really really important is the
data. uh you need data both for training
the model and for eval
right now perhaps the most widely used
and representative benchmark for running
evals is tbench
uh tabbench has a few problems first of
all tbench doesn't really capture all
the range of complexity that you see in
real world data uh so if you look at a
tabbench environment it is it probably
has an order of magnitude fewer
specifications than you would have in a
in a real world uh setting where like a
business would be doing real world
customer support. There's fewer tools in
Towerbench. Uh it doesn't have certain
kinds of specifications that you would
want to provide. Uh and then another
problem with Towbench is that it's
extremely benchmaxed. If you go to your
favorite benchmarking website, you're
probably going to see most of the models
achieving uh scores that are in the
'90s. But then if you run these same
models on real world production logs, uh
you're going to get much lower scores,
and there's also going to be much more
variance across models of different
sizes. So data is a key key ingredient
of building the kinds of performant
models uh that that we want to build uh
in addition to the algorithms.
Now our approach for getting good data
for our models involves a system that we
call Dowo Forge which uh synthesizes a
wide range of realistic RL environments
similar to Dowbench based on real data
based on real user interactions or uh
either based on data that we're getting
from our data providers or we also have
partnerships with companies that are
using uh this model in production and so
we get a lot of real world data that
then allows us to synthesize uh talbench
like environments across different
domains which can then be used for evals
as well as for training the model. So
this slide here summarizes or gives an
overview of tao forge. Uh taforge is an
agentic system. So it's a harness that
orchestrates uh a large number of
different agents and it produces this
output synthesized so synthetic RL
environments that are similar to
Towbench. The input to Dow Forge is a
description of the kind of environment
that you would like to generate. So here
for example, you could ask it to
generate a banking environment as well
as artifacts that represent real world
usage of users in that real world usage
of the model in uh that target domain.
The first step is to synthesize uh an
initial environment that is based on
that data. that involves for example a
policy that specifies the kinds of uh uh
task or the kind of domain where you
want the model to operate. So for
example, if this is meant to simulate
customer support in banking, then you
could generate a policy that describes
how the bank would operate, what are the
hours, who are the users, different
accounts, maybe synthesize a small
database. Uh and also uh it creates
tools that the model can use to then
interact with this environment. Uh again
crucially this can be uh conditioned on
real usage of the model which ensures
that this environment is representative
of how the model is going to be used
later in in production. If this data is
not available, we've also created what
we call the business knowledge graph
which is data that has been crawled all
across the internet and that describes
various representative businesses. uh so
we can also synthesize uh uh domains for
which we don't have real world data but
we have crawled the internet to gain
real world knowledge about these
businesses.
Now given an environment then the most
important next thing that we want to
generate are tasks which means these are
tasks that uh uh so so we're going to
have uh simulated users that will try to
achieve certain goals in this
environment and the agent will assist
them in these goals and we need to
synthesize what those goals are. In
order to do this we start with what is
called a database of seeds. Uh so these
are abstract scenarios. For example I
want to open an account, close an
account, I want to change my phone
number. uh I would like to I don't know
get some information uh as well as
personas which are um certain types of
humans that might be interacting with
the model given that we have an
environment we can take our library of
scenarios and other seeds and specialize
it to this domain again by invoking an
agent uh and then once we have a good
database [clears throat] we can start to
generate tasks. So again these are real
world interactions that a user would
have with these models and then we will
simulate those users using other agents.
Now getting a good set of tasks is also
non-trivial. Uh we need to strike a
careful balance of tasks that are uh not
too easy to solve. So if a if a model
consistently solves this task, it's not
useful for learning. And conversely, if
the task is too hard, there's also not
enough learning signal. So there is an
iterative procedure where we filter and
reconstruct tasks based on the ability
of the model to solve them. Uh and to do
this we use these go these what we call
uh hardening traps which means that uh
we can uh modify the task to make it
more difficult. So for example you can
take away certain information or you can
make the ask more complex. Uh so you can
do all kinds of uh tricks to harden the
task or you can also filter out
difficult tasks uh until we get
something that we feel strikes a good
balance between being realistic and
providing learning signal to the model.
So again the output here are RL tasks
and then uh of course this is
continuously inspected by looking at
real world data. So uh models are well
first of all these environments can
still be verified the harness can be
updated uh and also models that are
coming out of this environment we get
real world feedback from users and we
can use that to further refine the
harness and further refine this uh
synthetic generation procedure.
So as an example of what this model can
achieve uh here this is an experiment
where we used our latest preview model
mercury 2.5 um uh so before it was uh
trained on any sort of domain specific
data you know it achieved about 50%
accuracy and training it on an initial
set of tasks synthesized from tforge
improved performance on another set of
environments by over 23% matching the
performance of uh all kinds of
state-of-the-art openour or is in closed
sourced uh model and here just to
clarify the setup is that uh there are
there's a diverse set of environments
and businesses so for example I don't
know banking or you know airplane
um booking airplane tickets and uh you
know getting doctor's appointment so you
can have a whole range of businesses and
you can split that into a test set and a
training set you hill climb on one set
of businesses and you test on a
different set of businesses uh which
ensures that uh which which helps reduce
overfitting. Um and and again these
these these these tasks are still
especially the test set is closely
derived from real world logs which gives
us confidence that this will correlate
with real world performance once we
deploy into into production. Um, so this
is just a a bit of uh a bit of
information on the kinds of techniques
that we can use to make our model really
high quality, not just fast, but also
improve their uh intelligence in some
very specific priority domains like uh
voice. Uh and if you'd like to try these
models, they're available. Uh so they
run at 1,000 tokens per second. This is
the pricing. And even though I mainly
talked about voice in this talk, uh we
also have uh customers across other
domains including search as well as
code. Uh and so these are all domains
where uh mercury 2 models are really
good for latency sensitive tasks. Uh and
there's if you're interested in
feedback, we have companies and other
companies that are using these. Uh so
happy to tell you more after the after
the talk. And maybe I'll just briefly
add by saying that we have a program for
startups. If you are in YC, we have a we
have $500,000 in credits that we're very
happy to give away. Uh if you're
interested, please uh grab me and uh I
would love to tell you more. Thank you.
[applause]
All right, next up we have Shane.
Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much
for your attention. I think I'm the last
talk and uh I'm Shane. I just graduated
from my PhD at MIT and I think this is
my favorite project uh during my 5-year
PhD. It was work that I did while
interning at Google. Thank you for the
TPUs to make this happen. Um we
basically looked at multilingual
pre-training and within that transfer
between the languages. So the synergies,
interference and interactions between
the different training sets uh data set
sources that are different languages.
While I walk you through this project
for the next 10 minutes, you can imagine
all of these experiments and all of
these results and methods could be
generalized to many different sources
within your data. They don't have to be
languages. They could be um different
domains or different quality sources of
data, different things um however you
want to splice it up. And I think that's
important because increasingly when we
think about uh our model's capabilities,
its risks, its limitations, we think
about how all of those different pieces
interacted and came together. So diving
into this, I'm going to talk a little
bit about why this is important,
motivating it a little bit beyond
English. Then I'm going to go through
really quickly, rapidfire, some of the
research questions we asked and the
answers we arrived at before bringing it
together. So this was presented at iClar
earlier this year with these phenomenal
folks at Google, Udub, Stanford and some
other places. If you look at scaling law
and even mixing law papers in literature
right now, uh they are 99% about English
training data and English evaluation.
There's very little about sort of the
rest of the world and the community. Uh
which is actually kind of shocking. And
so this is thinking what if the
objective was a single language that
wasn't English or multiple languages a
cluster of them and exploring that
domain. And why is that different than
in English? The reason is because
there's severe constraints when you go
past the first few languages that are
very abundant online. And we also uh
provide toolings and methods both for
scaling laws, mixing laws, fine-tuning
versus pre-training and other decisions
that developers have to make. And this
has implications for uh developing
models for your own culture, society,
language and also trying to figure out
if you are Turkish um what are the
constraints in pre-training for uh
Turkish language models, how much will
they lag behind uh language models for
English based off of just the
availability of data that's there and
what synergies and interference we can
expect in pre-training. So let me start
with the problem setup. Very simply,
let's pick a language. We're going to
pick Thai because there's something like
80 million speakers in the world. It's a
very unique language, but we could be
talking about Swahili, Polish, it
doesn't matter. The point is that in
Madlad 400, a popular common crawl based
pre-training corpora, there are 0.6%
the number of tokens in Thai as compared
to English. So less than a percent of
the amount of English data that you
have. You know, some frontier model,
CHBT, whatever it is, we don't know. but
it has some training mixture among the
natural languages and it's probably
going to roughly follow like every other
language mall the distribution you know
they'll do different sampling techniques
and things like that but you're going to
roughly have more English than anything
else followed by the next languages you
care about that are more abundant more
uh heterogen heterogeneous
um all the way down that list and by the
time you get to Thai it's a tiny sliver
of the overall mixture much less than 6%
and so the performance performance on
Thai is going to be pretty poor. Um, it
might be pretty pretty good overall
because it's a massive model, but it's
not going to be great for Thai speakers.
And this is shown uh in the literature
and in evaluations.
So, you might say, okay, let's train a
model just for Thai. We're going to
monolingually only train on all of our
TAI data. But the problem is there's so
little of it that we end up repeating it
again and again and again. And those are
those dash lines, epochs. And you've
overfit to your tie data. You need a
much smaller model. And so actually, you
don't do very well there either.
Ideally, what you want to do if we skip
ahead to the solution is something like
this. It's actually a mix where you use
a lot of your tie data, but by the time
you're hitting severe diminishing
returns, you're also incorporating, this
isn't a curriculum. This is all, you
know, mixed together. You're using
highquality synergistic data that
happens to be English, Indonesian,
Malay, Lao, uh, Croatian, it turns out.
But you're not going to know that
because this isn't just about what
language families are similar. It's
about what data empirically is not noisy
and that other source is actually
helpful, covers similar topics. Um, and
that is very distributed and uncertain
on the web. It doesn't just mean that
they are from the same language family.
So it's something you have to
empirically measure. You can't just
bring a linguist and they can theorize
about linguistics for this particular
case. So
how do we get to the fantastic Thai
model or sahili model or Turkish model
and figure out the right mix and the
right model size?
First we want to measure language
synergies and this is where a lot of the
contributions of the paper comes in.
There's many ways you can think about
doing this. And the way that we landed
on was imagine this. You have a training
curve. So over your training steps, the
red line is where you're training only
on Thai data. So it's monolingual. So it
does pretty well, but it flattens very
early. Now imagine that compared to uh
models that are trained 5050 on Thai and
English, Thai and um Telugu, Thai and
other languages. And you can see that
those learning curves are much higher,
meaning that they're not as good. And so
actually the distance between these
curves tells you something about how
good that language is in being helpful
for Thai. And so we can say, okay, well,
Indonesian is better than English, which
is better than Telugu because that line
is longer, the distance. Um, and this
efficiency gap can be formalized into
something that looks like this. And let
me abstract all this away. Uh you don't
have to go into too much detail. If
these two lines are really close, the
number is big and positive. If the lines
are very far away, it's going to be a
negative transfer, meaning there's
interference. These languages are
competing for tokens or neurons in order
to represent one another and perform
well on them.
And if you do this over and over again
with many tricks that I'm not going to
get into, you get this big cross-lingual
transfer matrix where red means high
synergy and blue means high
interference. And so if you look at, you
can't see it, but imagine you could zoom
in and look at Spanish, the row. The
bright red uh spots empirically happen
to be Portuguese, Italian, um, and
French. And the most negative harmful
language um is Japanese. Meaning if you
train with Japanese, it's going to hurt
your Spanish. And so this is all
empirically sort of born and there's,
you know, some surprises in here, some
interesting things. Some languages are
more helpful broadly than others. Um and
it's complicated.
The other really cool thing about this
matrix is it's at one fixed size of
language model. If we increase the size
of the language model and make it much
bigger, then actually a lot of these
blues start to turn red or deeper red,
there's more synergy because the model's
bigger and can accommodate uh
understanding multiple languages at once
or together and seeing their common
patterns. But if the model gets really
small, all of these turn to blue and
they all interfere competing for space
within the model. All right, quick
question for the audience. who thinks
that if um Portuguese is helpful for
Spanish, that means that Spanish is
helpful for Portuguese and that symmetry
exists uh from what we measured. Raise
your hand if you think that is true.
We have a few people. If you think it's
not true, raise your hand. Okay, it's
kind of 50-50. Well, actually, it's kind
of hidden on the screen. I know it's
late. Uh it's not symmetric as you can
see. Um and actually there's this weird
sort of like uh branching factor that
happens and this is important because if
you're a practitioner and you do
experiments you say okay Telugu is
really helpful for Swahili you can't
assume the opposite you have to go
measure it and so that's where this
breaks down and we actually show that
okay second question you can redeem
yourselves um what is more helpful do
you think if two languages share the
same script or if they share the same
language, family. Who wants to vote for
family?
We have some. Who wants to vote for
script? All right, congratulations team
script. They both matter, but script
matters a little bit more probably
because of tokenization artifacts and
how those are represented. If you're
taking pictures, don't worry. It's all
online. I will point you to it. Um, I'm
going to go through in the last three
minutes really quickly a little bit of
math. We have this great matrix. So we
have all these numbers and relationships
between languages. But the last step is
how do we actually create a scaling law
from this? How do we actually understand
how to predict estimate loss or figure
out the best mixture of languages for a
given target which is our original goal.
You have to fit scaling laws. Those of
you that are familiar with Chinchilla
probably remember this. You predict the
loss based off of the model size and the
amount of data you've trained on and you
fit it using these blue parameters here.
you fit those. Um, however, if you have
a multilingual data source and you're
trying to figure out how good it is on
French, the thing that matters most is
how much French data you had and if you
have tons of other data, you know, how
is that factored in? 1D is not helpful.
You need to model all of it. And so, um,
that's what we do. There's many ways to
model this. We explored many options but
simple solution that actually works
really well is to break down
chinchilla's d into a composite of
monolingual transfer languages
monolingual source in this case Thai the
close transfer languages in the matrix
plus a bucket for everything else that
looks and yeah we account for
diminishing returns when you run do
multiple epochs of certain data there's
a lot of details long story short it
looks something like this and uh the tow
how is sort of a waiting factor that you
can learn from the matrix. I'm going to
rush along in the interest of time. But
you get bold numbers in a table
state-of-the-art. Yay. It works. It
works really well actually. Maybe
because a lot of people can't run 700
pre-training experiments. Maybe because
this is unders underserved and people
aren't looking at this enough. But
either way, I think this is really
useful machinery to use for mo for uh
mixing multiple sources and
understanding how they interact to
predict the final loss for your model
and how to scale your model given what
you have. So it gets us back to this.
I'm going to wrap up by saying we did
some experiments to say you have a big
pre-training models available that are
multi language. You just fine-tune or
maybe you should pre-train from scratch
for the language that you care about. We
tell you which to do based on how much
compute you have. We also look at the
curse of multilinguality. So if you um
want to increase the size of a language
model from four languages and you want
to retrain it for eight languages, how
much more data do you need and how much
bigger does the model need to be in
order to maintain the same performance
as before? We do a bunch of math. It's
very cool and we show you exactly what
to do as a practitioner and it actually
holds really well over different target
languages. So I'd recommend consulting
this if you're interested. Thank you so
much. Appreciate your attention.
[applause]