Title: This Startup Catches Fraud at Scale
Video ID: JF6XIixstmQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JF6XIixstmQ
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-03-31T16:00:18Z
Duration: PT31M24S
Views: 16095
Likes: 293
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 852

Description:
In this episode of Founder Firesides, YC Managing Partner Jared Friedman talks to Karine Mellata, co-founder of Variance (W23), who is coming out of stealth and announcing their $21 million Series A. Variance builds purpose-built AI agents for risk and compliance — automating fraud detection, content review, and identity verification for Fortune 500 companies and platforms like GoFundMe. They discuss why Variance built in the shadows for three years, detecting state-sponsored fraud rings, and th

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So, I'm particularly excited to do this
Founder Fireside because we have a first
for the Founder Fireside series. We are
doing a big announcement on this
podcast. We are announcing that Variant
is coming out of stealth and announcing
their $21 million Series A, and I'm
really excited to be here with Karim,
the co-founder of Variant. Thank you so
much for joining us, Karim. Thank you.
So, this is a big day. You're coming out
of stealth after building basically in
stealth for the past 3 years, and you
built Variant quietly into this big
company that powers a lot of the
products that everybody knows and uses
in their regular life. Can you tell us
about what Variant is and about the $21
million Series A you're announcing? So,
Variant is building purpose-built AI
agents for risk and compliance. We
automate content review, fraud reviews,
identity reviews at scale. We're
powering some of the largest companies
in the world, Fortune 500s,
marketplaces. We've been working with
GoFundMe, for instance, to review all of
their fundraisers at scale, some Fortune
50 for verifying all of their sellers
and complex UBO verifications, and today
coming out of stealth. And you guys
built in stealth for a long time, like 3
years, and you have a lot of customers
that you can't even name on this on this
podcast. Why all the secrecy around
this? Variant usually deals with really
sensitive data and sensitive issues, and
the phrase I like to use is that we're
building the systems that are often used
by the bad guys, but we're building them
for the good guys. So, often times it's
really hard to market the use cases that
customers are using Variant for because
those issues are so sensitive, and if we
were to market those, then it may create
more fraud, it may create more abuse, it
may create more bad. Like your your
customers are stuck in this constant cat
and mouse game with the bad guys and
you're their secret weapon. They don't
want anyone to know what their secret
weapon is.
>> Exactly. We're in the shadows. I think
it's it's it's good it's really
impactful for our employees working at
the company, really impactful. You get
to see that when you work at Varience,
but I think even far beyond the series
A, we'll always be a company that's a
little bit more in the shadows and I
think that's that's okay for us. What's
cool about Varience is that even though
probably
no one who's watching this video has
ever actually used the product
themselves,
they have used many products that under
the hood are actually powered by what
you built. And so indirectly, they're
actually like using stuff built on top
of Varience like a lot of like software
infrastructure counter products. Can you
maybe tell people about a
specific product that they've used
that's or probably used that's powered
by Varience and how it works? One of the
customers, GoFundMe, is a platform that
you can use in order to build your own
fundraisers. And GoFundMe is effectively
a payments platform. And GoFundMe
actually has some very strict compliance
requirements because they are liable for
facilitating payments to, let's say, an
organization that they shouldn't have
done so. So Varience is used to verify,
for instance, if a fundraiser is going
to be built for a military operation,
for instance, or if you're building a
fundraiser for
um a crisis that you were not part of,
which would be fraudulent. Well,
GoFundMe sort of has the responsibility
to be able to detect this. They're using
AI agents, so Varience AI agents, to
conduct those investigations. So make
sure that the money is going to the
person that they say they are and also
make sure that the money is not going to
be funneled to sanctioned countries, for
instance, or be going to um anything
that could be a compliance risk for
them. You were telling me earlier about
like one specific very concrete form of
fraud. What does like typical fraud on
GoFundMe look like? Yes, so
GoFundMe is actually very crisis-driven.
So, if there is any sort of large event
or any sort of natural disaster, there's
usually going to be a spike in
fundraisers that occur on GoFundMe. It's
really hard for the team to keep up with
how many of these fundraisers are
actually going to be real fundraisers
for that event or possibly fraudulent.
One of the example that we saw was I
think recently there was, for instance,
the the murder of Charlie Kirk. There
was a spike of fundraisers for the
family of Charlie Kirk. How do you know
who's actually related to Charlie Kirk
and who's just trying to
raise money for their own Okay, so like
Charlie Kirk dies. Yes. And then what
happens is like 100 people post a
fundraiser on GoFundMe like claiming to
be a family member of Charlie Kirk.
>> Exactly. And it's mostly just like total
fraudsters who are just hoping that some
people like donate to their Charlie Kirk
fundraiser instead of the real Charlie
Kirk family fundraiser. Exactly.
>> And you're in charge of figuring out
which one is the real Charlie Kirk
family and who are the like 100
fraudsters. Exactly. And there's a lot
of behavioral signals you can use to do
so.
You have information on the identity,
you have information on what that
account has done in the past. You also
have information at the fundraiser
level. So, the image, the bio, and such.
So, the Variance AI agents are going to
be using all of that context and use the
GoFundMe terms of services to basically
decide whether or not that should be
allowed on the platform. That work used
to be done by human analysts and now can
be fully automated in a much more
consistent manner. Every person who
signs up to do a GoFundMe fundraiser,
they don't realize it, but actually
their request is being validated by
Variance AI software before it's allowed
to go live. Yes, exactly. What are other
like products that people
use that also are powered by variants
and they don't even realize it? So, the
scale has been um impressive. The number
of use cases that our agents can be used
for. So, we have been running complex
identity reviews for marketplaces, gig
economy platforms. So, when you sign up
to actually be for instance a delivery
driver, your identity needs to be
verified based on selfies, based on your
driver's license. All of that data is
then going to be reasoned on by our AI
agents. And then it's also going to be
validated based on the company standard
operating procedures. That's a good
example of how variants is used. We're
also used for complex, what we call KYB
verifications. So, if you sign up to do
any sort of business online, whether
it's for a marketplace or also to with a
financial institution,
they have the compliance requirements to
verify that you are actually linked to
the business you say you you own. So, a
good example is for example, I sign up
to say I'm going to be doing business
with variants. Well, the legal name of
my company is Decoy Technologies and it
is tied to Keren Melamed. That's a
simple example, but building that graph
at scale is really hard and often times
you're going to see company have
multiple shell companies, be tied to
multiple different agents and different
other identities. And within that really
large graph, you expand the area of risk
for the company where one of these nodes
could be in a sanctioned country. One of
these nodes could have adverse media on
them and possibly have
been to court for money laundering. And
companies are required to conduct these
investigations at scale and at the
moment it's entirely manual. Do you
license data from a bunch of different
sources? Do you like scrape all these
government websites? Yes, but to take a
step back, I think it's really elegant
how AI agents are built at the moment.
There's really only three building
blocks that you need. So, you have
the compliance documents, the standard
operating procedure, so what the company
deems as necessary to verify at the
onboarding level or at any other parts
of the life cycle of that entity. Once
we have those compliance documents, then
the AI agent can do its work using tools
that we built and data, internal or
external. Those are the only building
blocks you need to automate complex KYC,
complex KYB, complex content review. The
question you're asking about data is
interesting. Usually it's going to be a
split between internal customer data.
So, Variance is really good at
connecting to all data sources, pulling
unstructured data into our own data
stores.
And the second one is external data. So,
we do have access to over a hundreds
business registries across the world,
which makes us international. And then
our AI agents also have access to the
open web. So, a lot of unstructured data
is found directly on the web. I actually
think interestingly enough that access
to the web was one of the final nodes
that made this whole problem really hard
to automate. Yes, because like the human
analyst, a big part of what they would
do is they would go and they would like
Google for names and then they would
like look at what comes up and apply
some judgment. Like, all right, does
this seem fishy or not? Exactly. When
you think of a large graph
of abuse,
if one of these nodes, one of these
intelligence signal is found on the
unstructured or the open web, then
without having a human agent Google on
the web, you can't even trace back the
whole graph of abuse. What are some
other interesting technical challenges
that you guys have encountered and have
to solve in the course of
making this work? At scale, um, the data
problem was was
really the core hardest technical
challenge. Usually with customers, what
we will do is that we'll pull in
petabytes of data that are coming from
vastly different sources, and all of
that data is unstructured, doesn't have
a schema. Unstructured, isn't it? Don't
you just like pull it like like do you
pull like out of there like relational
database? I I I wish it was this this
simple. But usually, I mean, I'll give
you a very concrete example. So for
instance, if you need to verify a
fundraiser, I'll pick the fundraiser
example. Okay. Usually the data is going
to be scattered around the user identity
data, so you need to have information on
the user, you need to have information
on all of their login behaviors, the
devices that they've had, the PII that
they've onboarded at the beginning. You
need to also be able to pull in
information about the business, and then
you need to have also all of the
information on the fundraiser itself,
and all of the history of that
fundraiser. What has been hard is that
often times, whether you're financial
institution or you're a marketplace,
that data is going to be scattered
across five to 10 different systems.
It's going to be into different data
stores. And one thing that's been really
interesting in that is that sometimes
that data is going to be hidden behind a
UI.
So the only way that the Verint AI
agents are able to sort of scoop up that
data and reason over it is to be able to
directly scrape from a UI that was built
for a human.
So the data piece and being able to
scoop up all of that data and bringing
it to Verint was one of the hardest
technical challenges. It's really an
onboarding one.
>> And so do you do you do that? Do you
have agents that interact with like the
customers' like internal dashboards and
like pull data out of them? Yes. So at
the moment, the way that integrate with
Verint can be reverse ETL, API, but very
recently we've been awarded this third
way, which is spinning up a browser,
>> Browser. Wow. opening up a really old
review tool that was built for a human,
Okay.
>> pulling that data and then reasoning
over it. I guess it makes sense because
like the work was being done by a human
before and so like if the human can use
the dashboard, well, the agent can use
the same dashboard. Yes, exactly. You
worked on
related systems at Apple like pre-LLMs
and now you're building this like deeply
agentic system. Can you talk about how
the technology has evolved and like why
it's possible to solve this problem now?
Yeah, definitely. So, I think it's
important to sort of
understand how these problems were
solved at scale before. So, usually
companies are going to have a patchwork
of different, what I call, deterministic
systems. So, they're going to have rules
that say, "Well, if this transaction is
over a thousand dollars, then do this."
Um they're going to have classifiers
that are really good at detecting
detecting one specific flavor of abuse.
Then they're going to have humans. And
humans are really good at
understanding in context all of these
different nodes and signals and then
making a final decision.
And I think when you think of a fraud
system, the most important feature of a
fraud system is that it needs to evolve
really rapidly and you need to have a
really tight feedback feedback loop. But
when you think of the three nodes I've
mentioned, rules engine, classifiers and
humans,
humans being really slow times and and a
little bit inconsistent, that feedback
loop can only be so fast. And we never
really felt like you could achieve a
self-healing system that could thrive in
a dynamic environment and I think fraud
is the most dynamic environment cuz you
always have adversaries. So, Michael and
I were always really, really, really
stubborn about
making this system have no nodes that
were inefficient, if that makes sense.
And now you have AI agents that are able
to sort of close the loop from a
reliance and self-healing standpoint.
They're able to materialize any features
that our rules engine would be able to
materialize.
You don't need a classifier anymore
because AI agents are able to read set
of standard operating procedure and
reason over an image or reason over sort
of unstructured data and know that
this is possibly chargeback fraud. You
don't need a specialized classifier for
it.
Um and you don't need human reasoning
anymore. So you have this fully
self-healing system, which at scale is
really transformative and allows
companies to be able to ship faster,
open new product lines cuz they don't
have this sort of bottleneck.
>> Do you have an example of something like
that with one of your customers where
the system was able to do something that
just like no human team of fraud
analysts could ever have been able to
do? Yeah, one customer specifically
uh and I think that fraud pattern came
to be during the elections. Um we had
one customer that is processing a lot of
content and they're also they're Fortune
500. They're hosting large communities
and they're also fairly politically
exposed.
And throughout the elections, because
our AI agents had access to the context
of entities in relation to other
entities. So how does this user fit into
all of the other users that we're
looking at? We were able to detect
really complex fraud rings of especially
state-sponsored actors that were pushing
one narrative over. And I don't think
this would have been possible if you had
one classifier in isolation that was
looking at one piece of content after
the other. But because AI agents are
able to directly query our data stores,
they're able to materialize features on
the fly and they're also able to use one
step to reason over what should be the
next step and the next tool call that
they make. We were able to detect much
more sophisticated fraud rings than you
would have been able to do before. It's
also like a pretty interesting
implication of variance. Like you're
actually able to like detect
misinformation online and like improve
the political
discourse. What a what a like cool
impact to have on the world. Yeah, it's
been a it's been high responsibility.
Um but no, it's it's been really
interesting. I think um some of the
abuse vectors we've been able to detect
have had really serious physical
implications. So, people that are making
threats online of physical harm have a
plan to do these things at scale. Um
Wow, so you might have actually like
prevented physical violence from
happening in the world by detecting it
early. Yes, exactly. Yes. So, at scale
some of these investigations can lead to
finding things that are really scary.
And at the end of the day, once it's
detected and investigated by Variance,
it's usually going to be in the hands of
law enforcement. But seeing that impact
at scale is really interesting. This
sounds like a lot of software to build.
How how big is the team now? So, we're
12. Um we have five software engineers.
So, we've been we've remained very very
lean.
>> software engineers building all of this?
Yes. Are you hiring more? We're hiring
more. So, we're we're hiring across the
board. Um we're hiring for back end.
We're hiring as well for front end,
which I think Michael and I hadn't
realized was such an important part of
the product. If I can give you a little
bit more context, I think
when Michael and I first started the
company, we were really stubborn about
building a full end-to-end decisioning
layer. So, we thought we needed to get
really good at making really precise
decisions, but at the end of the day we
could be treated like an API call. We
were not right about that. Um what we
found out is that because AI agents are
able to take on the simplest part of the
workflow. So, they're able to triage 99%
of of cases. That 1% is usually going to
be the most complex cases that need to
be reviewed by a human. And you need a
really good dashboard. You need a really
good investigative visual tool to be
able to make sense of those super
complex use cases. What's it like
working at Variance? What's what's cool
about working there? It's a very strong
ownership culture. Um we have five
engineers and we're processing petabytes
of data. We're making decisions in a
fully automated manner for some of the
largest companies in the world. So, I
think just for context, we have two
ex-founders on the team. Um everyone has
a really strong ownership culture and it
really feels like they have agency over
every single part of the company. So, on
a day-to-day basis, we're in person in
San Francisco every day. We're very very
product-focused. Both Michael and I are
engineers, of course. So, it's a very
very high ownership, but also high
collaboration workplace. And there's
never really a time where Michael and I
sort of dictate to the team what there
is to build. It's really more going to
be we give a problem to an engineer and
then they just take it and run with it.
And at the end of the day, it's been
really fascinating because I can sort of
proudly say that there's people on the
team that understand certain areas of
the business better than I do. For
instance, Luke on the team was one of
the first engineers at Meter and he
understands evals for large language
models better than anyone else on the
team and even
I think better than than a lot of people
in the industry. So, we sort of have
this culture where we get to learn a lot
from our engineers. And because the team
is so small, they get to be a really
large part of the success of Variance.
And I think that's something that's been
possible now that we have coding agents.
Yeah, are you guys AI coding
maximalists?
I would say we we we pretty much are at
this point. Um everyone on the team is
usually going to be almost like a
manager of their own their own small
team, which is really interesting. I
would say we're five, but I think in
terms of software output, we're probably
closer to a 25-people team. So, every
engineer is going to have three monitors
with their coding agents running. Um
we still have, you know, good oversight.
We still review all of the PRs, but I
think in terms of output, everyone is a
manager of a small team of AI agents,
which is really interesting. And I think
one other really interesting anecdote is
that our customer success manager, who's
entirely non-technical, but interfaces
with enterprise customers on a
day-to-day basis, now gets to take on
feature requests, especially the simple
ones, directly give them to Cursor, a
Cursor agent, and then directly be able
to ship features in a fully autonomous
manner, get back to the customer a few
hours later and say, "Oh, it's it's
shipped." And she didn't even need to
speak to the engineering team.
>> Well, that's awesome. Maybe let's change
gears here and talk a little bit about
the the origin story. How how did you
and Michael end up starting this
company? How did you end up working on
this problem? So, Michael and I both
met. We were co-workers at Apple. Um we
were both engineers on the fraud
engineering team. And I was a data
engineer, Michael was a machine learning
engineer. And it was really interesting
because the team in and of itself was
sort of the fraud engineering as a
service team of Apple. We were providing
our services to the iMessage team, the
iCloud team. And we were the centralized
fraud team. And Michael's machine
learning decisions were then dispatched
to the rest of the organization through
my own streaming jobs. So, we had a very
sort of symbiotic relationship uh from
the get-go. We knew that we worked
really well together. I remember telling
Michael, "Oh, well, what if the right
vehicle for this product was a company?"
And I told Michael, "Oh, we should apply
to Y Combinator." That was sort of the
origin story. I think it really started
from the product. We really, really
wanted to
just see this product exist. Um and we
wanted to see that problem that we were
solving at Apple
be solved in a much more efficient way,
in a much more self-healing and
resilient way. How did you crack it? How
did you convince the first customer to
take a big bet on you? I think your
first customer really believes in the
founders first. They believe in the
founders' ability to be able to solve
their problem because at the end of the
day when you start enterprise, you do
have a version of your product, but it's
going to evolve so much based on your
first customer's requirements.
>> Yeah. So, there was a a belief and a
trust in Michael and I that we
understood their problem well enough to
then translate that into a software
platform. It really started with that
and then I think the second thing that
was really important is that we needed
to land on a problem space which has
evolved a lot, which was
on fire. Mhm. It needed to be on fire
because what we found is that if it
wasn't on fire, then
there was no reason to go and trust this
really small startup that had no real
proof points behind them. Who was the
first customer and what was the burning
pain point that got them to be willing
to do this? Yeah, so our first customer
was uh a company called IAC. They're a
publicly traded company. IAC folks might
not have know of IAC cuz they're like a
parent holding company, but I'll bet
they know about some of the IAC brands.
Like
100 something IAC brands that everybody
knows. Yes, so I IAC brands, I mean, IAC
has care.com, Angie. We were working
with Ask Media Group Okay. which had a
very large amount of marketing content.
And because IAC is a large publicly
traded company, there was a lot of
compliance requirements around what
could go into their marketing content.
So, we basically used the platform that
we had built to to content at scale to
then review their own marketing content.
And I think what was really interesting
is that one, that problem was entirely
solved using human agents because those
compliance guidelines are really hard to
map to a traditional classifier. You
can't give advice for legal defense for
instance. That's really hard to map to
>> Right, writing a regular expression for
that.
>> Exactly. So it was it was
semi-impossible. So it was a very large
team of human agents, uh part of a BPO
outsourced that was doing this work. And
that was basically hurting their growth.
There was less marketing content that
they could put out in the world because
they were not It's really hard to scale
a team of human agents and human
moderators. So they knew sort of had an
intuition that that could be done with
large language models, but we were the
first company to say, "Hey,
we can actually do that with large
language models." We were a small
startup. I think that happened maybe
>> This was at the very beginning cuz you
guys actually started Variance
pre-ChatGPT. Like just a little bit
before ChatGPT, right?
>> Yeah. And so you were you were right at
the very earliest waves of companies
that were figuring out out how to use
LLMs to automate these previously
unautomatable tasks.
>> Yes, exactly. Um I think
GPT-4 came out during the batch, which
was really interesting. And as we were
running this pilot for this first
customer,
sort of open AI was coming out with new
models in the middle of the pilot, which
was changing one, our cost structure by
a 10x factor, but also was changing our
performance quite a lot. So it was
really interesting to build in this
world that was super dynamic. Okay, so
the the the first big battle was like
getting the first customer. Took eight
months to land IAC. You really did it
the hard way cuz you went enterprise
from the from the very beginning. Have
there been any other hard
like challenges of building this
company? I think starting a company
tests you in a lot of different ways. Um
and we have a really interesting story.
You know, after I see we got to on board
a lot of great customers in the trust
and safety space. Um Medium, of course,
GoFundMe, Redbubble. And around July
2024 was one of the times where
the company was growing rapidly. We were
on boarding more and more enterprise use
cases. I think during that month our
revenue was
doubling within the month and then
doubling the month after.
>> Wow. It was really exciting, very step
function because it's enterprises. And
we had just wrapped up one of the
largest trust and safety conferences uh
called TrustCon in in San Francisco. And
I think a couple I want to say the day
after we had worked so hard for this
conference. We 12 hours a day. We were
super tired. Um
I was going back to the office on a
Sunday afternoon. Um and I was on the
bike lane. And a truck hit me. That was
a really really crazy experience to to
go through as a founder. I mean, the
company was doing well, but at the end
of the day we were a 10-people team and
the CEO who just gets hit by a truck.
How badly were you injured? Um so I
broke my spine, broke my leg, and I was
hospitalized for about 10 days. I
couldn't walk for about 10 days. Wow.
For a year and a half as a founder,
you're moving so fast. You're working
every day. I had never
I don't think we ever took days off.
Even if you do, you're you're still
pretty much on.
So for a year and a half you're working
super hard and then all of a sudden as a
founder, you're in a bed and you can't
move. Three or four days after all of
that happened, Michael came to visit me
in the hospital.
And of course Michael was super anxious.
One for my health, but also trying to
understand what that even meant, right?
Like the
the CEO has a bus factor of one. We only
have engineers and we have me that's
running all the sales and the customer
relationships.
>> were the only It was all founder-led
sales. You were the only person doing
sales.
>> Yes, and and fully the rest of the team
was only engineers. And and Michael came
to visit me and he he brought I don't
know, I vividly remember he brought this
Norman Foster book which was the
architect of Apple Park
as a gift to me and he was sort of
sitting next to my hospital bed holding
the book. Um and we were both in silence
cuz we we didn't even know what to say,
right? It was silence for for a couple
of minutes and
he laughed and said, "Well, this is
going to make a really good scene in our
IPO movie."
I was like, "Yeah, it's a good way to
view it."
We laughed about it, but I think I was
probably out of commission for about a
week and then two or three weeks after
that. And I think it it it put a lot of
stress on on the company. There were a
moment a few moments where Michael was
wondering
if this was the end. He would tell me
and repeat to me the story of Steve
Wozniak who like went through the plane
crash and then left Apple and then
went to go work at went back to
Berkeley. So, I think there was sort of
a a feeling that maybe this was going to
be the end of the company and maybe we
just needed to sort of part ways. There
was a really deep feeling that um
it was not the end. It's an interesting
challenge. So, it's sort of like a a
hurdle you need to go over, but it just
doesn't feel like the end at all. It
feels like there's so much more to come
and
I definitely felt that. I know Michael
felt that and we got to
got to walk again. Now, I can walk again
and and and we got to learn that
we definitely need to scale me so that
so that hopefully this doesn't happen
again, but we definitely yeah, need to
scale me. One thing that strikes me
about your story is
the extent to which you guys have had a
very strong opinion from the very
beginning about what to build and who to
build it for. Like a lot of founders
come into YC,
they have some initial idea, but like
it's just a hypothesis, and then they
like pivot through like many different
ideas, and like new models drop, and AI
changes, and they like might change the
thing that they're working on like
several times to fit with whatever the
like cool thing is. And and and you you
guys have kind of been the opposite of
that. You came in like day zero with a
very strong opinion of what to build.
You'd seen the problem firsthand, and
then the whole company has just been
like that initial hypothesis playing
out. I guess, I don't know, is is that
perhaps part of why it didn't seem like
it could be over yet because you like
really had to see it through? Yes. And
if we go back to why Michael and I
started the company, Michael and I had a
very specific pair of skill sets in
And we understood what the industry
looked like. We had a lot of issues with
what the industry looked like and how
these problems were solved at scale. But
I think from the beginning, we always
felt a really strong sense of duty
to put our very specific and quite rare
pair of skill sets to the good of the
industry.
Um it was almost like a sense of duty,
and to us it was never really about
starting a company for any problem sets.
Which I think some some founders are
really great at doing that. Don't get me
wrong. But we didn't want to just start
a company for any problems. We wanted to
solve that problem. And we knew the
technology was going to evolve, and and
we were so lucky, right? LLMs got so
good. Now we have agentic systems. We
have agent harnesses that are able to
fully solve this problem end to end.
But we really wanted to solve this
problem, and this strong sense of duty I
think is what kept Michael and I going
throughout the years. And I also think
that's something that resonates deeply
with customers. So when they meet us,
they sort of see these founders that are
really deeply trying to solve the
problem that they're seeing on a
day-to-day basis. Once because they've
seen it before, but also two because
it's something that is doable if you put
enough care into building the right
engineering system in the right ways.
All right. I feel like that might be a
great note to end on. Thank you so much,
Corrine. Thank you.