Title: India Can Create The Largest AI Companies
Video ID: Ju8LVdvuxGM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ju8LVdvuxGM
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-06-27T12:30:39Z
Duration: PT32M10S
Views: 29353
Likes: 665
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 936

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

This wave is more about are you living
at the edge of the technology and not as
much about do you understand the right
go-to-market right business model etc.
This is about do you understand this
technology 10x better than everyone else
and I think nobody does that better than
in India.
>> Wow, what a day.
The energy in this room has been
incredible. The energy here around
startups and technology and AI is just
without parallel anywhere else in the
world. Thank you all so much for coming
out today and for being such an
incredible audience.
>> [applause]
>> So we wanted to wrap up today by sharing
some of our takeaways from all of the
talks that you just heard the incredible
founders and all the advice that they
gave and for giving you some very
tangible advice that you can use to take
away when you go home today and you
start thinking about what you want to do
in in your journey to becoming a
founder. To do this, we decided to
invite a couple of friends
a couple of dear friends of ours
Puneet and Arnav
Puneet and Arnav
both worked at Y Combinator at one point
and so they were our colleagues. We got
to know them really well. They've gone
[snorts] on to have incredible careers
of their own after YC but they've
remained close to us and they have been
two of the most instrumental people in
helping Y Combinator expand into India
and are just some of the keenest
observers in the Y in the Indian startup
ecosystem. So thank you guys so much for
for being here with us.
>> Thank you. Thank you for coming here.
Look at the energy.
>> Do you guys want to start by just
introducing yourselves?
>> Yeah, sure.
So I've been coding since I was 10 years
old. When do I do Bombay?
My last startup was SuperDaily which was
a grocery delivery company. We went to
YC in winter 17. Jared was actually my
partner. We scaled that company to
around $100 million in annual revenue.
Uh Uh
Thank you. Uh exited to Swiggy, uh which
is now a public company. Uh left in
September '21. Uh wanted to partner with
entrepreneurs on the other side of the
table, so joined YC, and then came back
in India and uh was a venture partner at
Nexus. Uh but the itch to build never
went away, so I'm back to building.
Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> First of all, thank you for YC
organizing. This is like a rock concert.
It's quite amazing. Uh I'm Arnav. I
would used to work at YC for many years,
uh working with a lot of people there,
and especially with uh
Indian companies and developer
companies. I'm with the venture firm now
called Peak XV. Done a bunch of things
in my life. Had a startup that didn't
fully work out. Uh worked at a company
in the developer space, and now mostly
trying to work with uh you know, all the
young builders building in AI and
investing in them. And it's uh just
amazing to be here.
>> [applause]
>> Okay, so my my first question is for
Puneet. So, Puneet, you built
SuperDaily, which is this incredible
company, like part of the heyday of like
grocery delivery exploding in India.
Built it to a 100 million ARR.
Incidentally, how many engineers did you
have when you sold the company to
Swiggy? This is a fun fact.
>> Yeah. Um
so, we used to say that we have two
engineers, but like I was one of them.
So, we had just like really had me plus
one.
>> So, you had a 100 million ARR and one
engineer. And this is before AI.
>> [applause]
>> Uh anyway, more recently, you've been an
investor at one of the top VCs in India.
Um and so, you have a like a really like
front-row seat as like what's happening
now in India. Um what what is your
advice on like what ideas
folks in this room should be working on?
>> Yeah. I think I'm very very excited
about
um for the first time we can build
global companies out of India and this
follows what Mukund was saying from
Emergent as well that
um, now is the time I think over the
last 10-15 years we have seen couple of
waves of startups in India and uh, we
now know how to design well, how to do
good products, how to do technically
deep products.
Uh, we and the and the shift with AI is
not local. So, what happened with the
last wave was that with mobile phones
uh, labor got tokenized. So, anyone
anywhere could say that I have 1 hour
free, I can deliver for Swiggy, I can
deliver for SuperDaily, I can deliver
for Zepto and that happened because of
the mobile revolution. Uh, the AI
revolution is not local. Uh, that
revolution led to hyper local network
effects and so there were lots of
companies in India and Latin America and
US etc. I think the AI change is global
and uh, this is our time to shine. This
is the time like Mukund said to look at
the ceiling and uh, for the first time
build global companies in India. Uh, and
I'm very very excited. I think some of
the largest companies in the world will
come out of India because we have the
best technical talent and this is this
wave is more about are you living at the
edge of the technology and not as much
about do you understand the right
go-to-market, uh, right business model
etc. This is about do you understand
this technology 10x better than everyone
else and I think nobody does that better
than in India.
>> [applause]
>> Okay, so as a follow-up to that I can
imagine that there are some people in
the audience who are like, "Cool Puneet,
I got it. I should build for the global
market." But they maybe don't understand
the US market at all. Maybe they never
even been to the US and that might sound
very intimidating to them. Um, what
would your advice be for for them for
like how they can actually do that.
>> I think you are right that this was very
very hard to do before. Uh when you were
for example building a SaaS company, you
had never been to US, you didn't know
anyone, you had to find a warm connect,
or you had to maybe live live in the SF
for like a few years to build like the
network. But what has happened with the
AI is that everyone simultaneously
across the world just understands AI is
important. And so uh
we just saw that Giga and Emergent both,
they never lived in SF before starting
their companies. Uh and because as I
said that this time it's more about are
you building at the edge of technology
uh than are people open to it. Everyone
is open to it. Uh in the last YC batch
there was a company from India which was
which cold outreach to you insurance
companies in the US and sold to them.
This was unbelievable to me. I like it's
hard to sell to insurance companies, but
selling to insurance company in the US
by a cold email when you are a Indian
student in IIT in third year is just
unimaginable. But like what a time to be
alive. And so I think it's just we have
to get rid of our preconceived notions
that we need warm connects. I think you
can just reach out if you have a great
product, people are open to it. Uh
people want meritocratic solutions,
solutions which drive outcomes. Uh this
is not about where the budget goes, this
is about whose solution is better and
can drive better outcomes. And companies
are just like fully open.
>> And it's another leaky cup founders who
we heard from today are are maybe like a
great example of that. They were very
young founders with no connections in
the US who like just made it work by
just building a better product.
>> Like obviously apply to YC. And YC is
the best way to go to US. And so uh like
it has been the right way for Giga and
Emergent both. And uh I think even for
us when we went uh through Super Daily,
just going to YC and breathing the air
in SF just raises your ambition 10x. And
so like YC is also like the great
conduit to uh go global.
>> So, Arnav,
um you shared with us some
really insightful thoughts earlier about
the Indian educational system cuz you
grew up here um and what it means for
startup founders and what sort of
personality traits people in this
audience should think about incubating
in themselves if they want to transition
from being students that came out of the
Indian educational system to being great
founders like the ones that we here
saw here today and I I was hoping that
you could share those thoughts here,
too.
>> Yeah, totally. So, look a few thoughts.
It is very likely that the future of the
India AI ecosystem is going to be
defined by all the people in this room
and not by people who came from a prior
generation. The traditional advice of
most educational systems and the non-AI
native people is irrelevant now. If you
think about the traditional educational
advice people get is, you know, go get a
very high-paying, prestigious, safe job.
Go be a banker, consultant, an engineer,
a doctor.
And it is possible that a lot of those
jobs won't exist 10 years from now or at
least they will change dramatically and
historically that safe path might
actually now be the risky path.
If you believe in the end goal of where
all of this is going, it is also
possible that the people that are most
insulated from this are owners and
entrepreneurs of businesses. Now, I will
caveat that
it's very it
it is very hard for an average young
Indian to take the types of risks that
someone who grew up in Silicon Valley
can. Just given the social safety nets,
I think the Indian startup ecosystem is
booming but maybe not as deep as the US.
And for a lot of people in this room,
right, who who grew up in India, who
came from humble backgrounds, if you get
a super high-paying job that's safe,
that's stable, that's very prestigious,
you are already in the top 10% of this
country and you've killed it and I hope
many of you go and do that. But, you
know, I'm willing to bet there are a lot
of people in this room that disagree
with that cookie-cutter advice and
disagree with the advice that the
traditional education systems go give
you. And so, hopefully, I think with AI
as people can build their own tools,
people who are super high agency can now
release stuff in the wild, can at least
form their own convictions on what to do
with their lives versus being told to do
what what the Indian education system
tells you or any other education system
tells you. If you look at
you know, a lot of the companies are
getting born in the AI era, it is really
benefiting young technical founders who
live on the cutting edge. And it's
likely that you won't learn a bunch of
that in school today. And so, it does
benefit the people who are super high
agency, who want to totally go for it.
And also, the reality is we're only year
three or four in this whole AI boom. All
the people in this room have
easily 30, 40 years left to go build.
You guys will be the ones are going to
be the experts that should be telling
the rest of us on like what AI tools we
should be using. And for the people who
at least have their own independent
point of view and high agency, I think
this era favors those types of people
who really want to go for it.
>> And I guess if I could if I could jump
in and ask you there, how do people
develop an independent point of view?
Like, what does it take to actually
develop that?
>> Yeah, I can only speak from my personal
experience and some of this is my own
battle scars.
You know, it's easy to say go develop be
high agency, go develop your own point
of view, but it's hard to do it unless
you're not surrounding yourself by
people who go do that. I think there's a
reason why certain universities or even
YC, I mean, when I think about
why YC is so magical, you know, I think
founders come into the batch, they're
already very, very good, but I feel like
after the batch is, you know, PG used to
say, they become the 007 versions of
themselves, they become absolute beasts.
And some of it is like just truly people
network effects. And so, the fact that a
lot of you even showed up here to come
today on a weekend, I think speaks
volume that you guys are interested in
meeting other people like you. I you
know, I I think the other thing about
kind of the Indian education system or
maybe all education systems is it's like
it's not cool to be ambitious or say
that you want to be super ambitious. But
if you come to a place like YC, it is
expected that you're going to be
ambitious. And so in many ways like
surrounding yourself with people like
that just allows you to
at least form your own opinion because
otherwise you constantly get the cookie
cutter advice from people who have done
it in the past. And in AI actually it's
very dangerous to follow the advice of
people who are not AI native because
they're just not in the game with you.
And so I think in this era just
surrounding yourself with people who are
at the cutting edge I think is a very
conscious deliberate choice you can make
in your life which I think will just
compound as you grow through your
career.
>> That's amazing advice. Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> That might segue nicely into a topic I
was hoping that you could talk about
John which is
the phenomenon of YC founders getting
younger and younger. There's a lot of
young people in this audience. I met
some people here who are like 15 years
old. Um
what can you tell us about like
what's going on there?
>> Yeah, I I think first of all it's
certainly true that if you look at the
the last sort of 10 20 batches
the average age of the founders have
gotten younger.
Um it's not that we intentionally try to
fund older or younger founders. I think
what we're seeing couple things that
some of the the the kind of the stories
that you've heard it is now far more
true that AI has completely leveled the
playing field for young founders, right?
And you know, it it was always true that
you didn't have to be an expert and some
of the folks that talked today you
didn't have to be an expert to really
get deep into the field. But AI has
completely changed that to the next
level which is you are no longer limited
by your ability to build, you're limited
by the pace with which you can learn.
And for young founders that's a huge
advantage because you can build very
quickly and you can get insights very
quickly. And that's what we're seeing
the best young founders are doing.
The other thing is
the best young founders that we're
seeing are
tinkering more, right? And you know, to
the point earlier, what do I mean by
tinkering?
They're following their curiosities.
And they're working on the edge of what
might be possible today.
And you know, some those of you that
kind of walked in through the front, you
saw this model that's live in the future
and find what's missing, right? And this
is actually how to live in the future
and find what's missing, which is to
tinker and to follow your curiosity and
to work on the things that are barely
good enough for the models to do. And in
so doing
you're going to beat benchmarks, you're
going to establish new heights, you're
going to figure out where the
bottlenecks are. And those bottlenecks
are some really good ideas. And this is
not just me saying, you know, what you
should do, but this is actually what
we're seeing the young founders coming
into YC are doing.
>> I think like one very empirical thing
that
I suspect is part of what's driving it
too, is that if you kind of think back
to all the stories we heard today, I
think almost every founder had the
experience of their big idea was not
their first idea. There's some
exceptions, but for almost all of them,
they went through some number of pivots.
And I think it's often because the a
good startup idea is not obvious, right?
It's like you have to kind of be in the
field building something to notice the
really good idea. Like I work on a whole
bunch of side projects now, and like
every time I work on a side project, I
discover like five good startup ideas.
And I have to decide what I want to do
with those or not. Um I'm sure that's
how you started to get back into
building too. You started tinkering and
you were like, "Oh my god, like I can
just like make one of these into a
company." And
I think what hap what's happening now is
that with coding agents, you can get
something off the ground so fast that
like as a college student just kind of
messing around
on nights and weekends or in between
classes or skipping classes or whatever,
you can just very quickly find extremely
good ideas that would not have been
obvious if you were just on a whiteboard
thinking, but are very obvious once you
start building something and you realize
what's missing.
>> Ankit, I want to I want to riff on that
point. Um
it's certainly something that
struck me from the talks today was how
many of the ideas were not the first
ideas. The founder went on like a pivot
journey. And another thing that struck
me was how many of the ideas that worked
were not the first mover in their space.
They were like this, you know, the
third, fourth, or like 42nd like version
of the idea to launch. Do you want to
talk about second mover advantage and
maybe like more concretely even like
what that would mean for like people as
they think about what startup ideas to
work on?
>> I mean, I think this is one of these
crazy things we see over and over right
now. I mean, I think back to the example
that Varun from Giga shared of when he
closed DoorDash, he was competing
against several companies that had
several hundred employees and he had
eight.
Uh and he won the contract. And I think
it speaks to what a really strong
technical team that can build a superior
product can pull off. Um and I think
what's happened with with coding agents
is that
it means that people that have great
product clarity and vision can make
their ideas become real extremely fast.
Um and often with even more,
you know, precision and quality than you
would expect. Like I I I think there's
this um
sort of dated worldview of like AI slop
or something like that. Like people love
talking about like, "Oh, yeah, if I use
coding agents, it's going to produce
slop or whatever." It's like, "No, that
means you're actually not using them
well." Like the people who use them well
produce incredibly sophisticated code um
at a pace that was much faster than
before. And I think this this causes the
second mover effect cuz you can kind of
like I would I'm not exactly saying this
is my advice, but like a kind of
reasonable way to compete right now is
like find something that's kind of
working and then do it better than them
and then beat them. And unless that
first thing had incredible network
effects, which few things do, you
actually can just beat them from a
better product. And we see this with
Emergent also as a great example of a
company that's um pulling this off and
now scaling really fast.
>> Um speaking of AI coding,
could you maybe expand people's Overton
windows of like just how much you can
like crank up AI coding if you're like
really go like all the way in on it?
>> Yeah, this has been um my last 4-month
rabbit hole basically. And if any of you
guys follow Gary on Twitter, it is very
much his last 4-month rabbit hole. I
think that I was also one of these
people that
didn't fully realize how good things had
gotten until I'll be totally honest
until like December of this last year.
It was until this Christmas break when
um my Twitter wouldn't shut up about how
good Opus 4.5 had gotten. And I decided,
"Okay, it was time for me to actually
try to build something end-to-end with
these models." And I think what I
learned in doing that and I finally paid
for the $200 a month max plan.
And this is the Anthropic max plan um or
the Codex one, kind of similar. And what
I didn't realize was that unless you are
paying for at least that level of usage,
you actually are not anywhere close to
the frontier right now. Like there's a
meaningful unlock you get from just
letting the tokens rip. Um and there's
even more extreme versions of this. Um
Gary Tan, for example, spends thousands
of dollars per day
on token usage. Uh
and
>> [clears throat]
>> obviously, I'm not claiming that
everyone can spend thousands of dollars
per day. That's an incredible position
of privilege he has and that we all get
to have. But as a result, we just get to
peer into the future, right? Like I
think it's very safe to assume cost of
compute
per um level of intelligence is going to
go down a lot. And I think what you see
when you're willing to spend tons of
effort undoing computing well. For
example, not just writing the 20 unit
tests that a human would write, but
write 10,000 unit tests because why not?
Um not just writing you know, a small
number of docs, but writing tons of
them. Um not just having a few uh corner
cases covered, but all of them. Um
you can actually get incredibly
effective and powerful code really fast.
Um Incidentally, you also run into good
startup ideas all the time. Like uh I'm
currently working on this uh email
client side project you guys may have
seen on my Twitter and in building that,
which was a project I did basically like
quasi just for fun and because I found
my existing email client annoying,
I discovered several new ideas in
building it just from basically pushing
these models to the limits of what they
could do and realizing that you can get
a much better output if you basically
just don't worry about the uh
the cost of inference, right? It's like
uh Gmail's auto reply thing sucks, but
like if you're willing to spend like $5
per email, it's actually really good.
And it really shows you like how far you
can push these things if you're not kind
of bandwidth constrained by
intelligence. Um so I suspect what we're
going to see I maybe just like the
lesson for founders in [snorts] this
room, I think a big part of why we
wanted to hook you guys all up with
credits is not just cuz like oh yeah, it
would be cool, but it's like we actually
want you to feel a taste of what it's
like to not be capital constrained, to
like actually just like let it rip. Um
and and in fact, maybe I'll go further
is like whoever in this room manages to
like get a product off the ground that
uses those credits the fastest, like one
of the larger credit packages there,
should email me.
Uh and I would like love to hear what
people built with that cuz I think um
it's like it's quite it's quite
incredible what you can do if you just
let it rip.
>> Totally.
>> [applause]
>> Let it rip is good advice when it comes
to spending tokens. Let's talk about a
topic.
>> about people who cannot afford, what can
they do? How can How can we help them?
Uh let the tokens rip.
>> Well, um
John raised the topic of open source
models. Um do you guys have some
thoughts on open source models and what
that can mean for bringing down the cost
of what Gary Tan is able to do to make
it accessible to people who aren't Gary
Tan?
>> I mean, Arnav and I were just talking
about this uh earlier. Arnav, I'm
curious what you're seeing also, but
like
I don't know, like I've been playing
around with the minimax models and a
bunch of others and it's like they're
pretty good. They're pretty good.
They're really cheap and they're pretty
good and um
I I think I'm I'm of two minds about
this where on the one hand it does seem
like being at the very frontier seems
extremely useful for a subset of tasks,
especially coding.
But for a lot of tasks, um not
necessarily. Like I was quite I I was
quite inspired by um Vidit from Meesho
saying that he wants to use voice AI to
bring the next billion people online
with shopping. And I think to do that it
it sort of requires the models to work
at a price point that the next billion
people can access and I imagine he's
going to be building on open source
models to do that.
>> Yeah, I would also highly recommend
there's this YC company called Open Code
which is built on top of the open source
models and they're very very good. Um
but at the same time, look, I think
there are so many companies that are
thinking about this in the right way
where
they want to give unlimited budgets to
their employees. And so for whatever
reason, if you're budget constrained, go
try and work for the companies that want
you to token max and just be at the
frontier to see what the power is. I you
know, I think we should safely assume
that the cost of tokens will keep coming
down. Open source models will keep
getting better and better. And so being
early in the game as fast as possible as
you can early in your career will just
give you such a huge advantage on how
the tools work. And you know, if you
just back to the earlier point, if you
try and build for the model 6 months
ahead, a year ahead,
or just think through what the models
can be capable of
6 months or a year ahead, again, you'll
just be far ahead than some of your
competition in terms of the thinking and
the road map and the types of things
that you guys can capitalize on.
>> Let's talk about a topic that I imagine
is on many people's minds. Um I'll bet
many people in the audience are thinking
about applying to Y Combinator at some
point, and they might be wondering what
does Y Combinator look for? How should
they think about like having a great Y
Combinator application? John, do you
guys want to maybe
clear up some misconceptions and talk
about like the real talk about what we
really look for?
>> I think there's a common misconception
that you want to write things in your
application that is like the most
impressive or the things that's the most
complicated. Um clarity is most
important. If we can't understand what
people are actually building, um
that's not going to work, right? And so
clarity above all else. Um we talk a lot
about taste and agency in founders,
right? Um first of all, I think
everybody sort of understands we've
talked about this a lot, which is
we're not investing in ideas. And as
many of you have heard today, the first
ideas might not be the ones. And they
might not work. Um the first ideas well
after the batch that have gotten to
millions of of ARR could also be subject
to pivots. You might be pivot pivoting
several different times. So it's not
about the idea. Fundamentally, it's
about you, the founder.
And we talk a lot about taste and
agency, and I'll I'll offer kind of what
that means to me. Taste, I think the
common misconception is that you build
products that look, you know, good. You
can exercise kind of your taste.
But it's fundamentally more about
intention. Are you building products and
and showing demos that are intentional?
Are there insights from the customers
that you've talked to that back your
design choices? That, you know, that and
the pace with which you can actually get
to those insights and develop the
product that encapsulates that
intention. That's taste. Um agency,
Kunal mentioned earlier, I think you
will become a more formidable version of
yourself and and I think there's a
there's an um an old essay that is very
like many PGAs that I would recommend
everyone in this room read. It's titled
Relentlessly Resourceful, right? And you
know, it's the notion that
do you let the conditions of the world
happen to you or do you exact what you
want to do on the world? And do you do
you will things to happen? And so, those
are some really strong founder
qualities. And of course, in the end,
your rate of learning matters a lot.
>> And I think the reason why we care about
those things is not just from some like
philosophical belief that they're right,
but it's because if you kind of just
reflect on the six founder stories we
heard today, they're like perfect
examples of why that matters, right?
Like essentially all of those companies
had to do
all of those founders had to lead their
companies through completely insane
times to get to where they are. And
being relentlessly resourceful and
having taste as expressed through
customer obsession is kind of this is
consistent theme through all of them.
It's actually really interesting to
listen to them and say like wow, like we
didn't prompt all these people to talk
about their customer so much, but like
they all like very intuitively are
thinking about their customer in a very
centric way. And and I think that like
speaks to how important that is. Like to
make it, you have to be so obsessed with
that.
And I guess a related thing I think
about is like what people should do
before they're ready to start signing
companies. Like we mentioned tinkering
earlier. And and maybe I'll take that a
little bit further and say like people
should work on projects. And I'll give a
very specific definition of project. Um
a project is when two people
build something that was not assigned to
them
and get someone to use it.
And what's fascinating about that
definition of project is you can have an
entire computer science education and
job and be successful and never do a
project.
Either you did it solo or it was
assigned to you from an internship or a
class or whatever.
Or you never got anyone to use it or you
never built it. It was just like a
whiteboard exercise.
And it turns out if you just do
projects, especially when you're young
and in college, um and if you use, you
know, the tools that we're giving you
through that um
starter pack. Uh you're just like
guaranteed to find startup ideas. And
it's it's projects kind of lead people
to have those exact traits that John was
discussing. One thing I'll say though is
Jerry, you've been doing this for a
while now. You joined YC 10 years ago
and have been working in your own
startup in this for 20 years.
Are there things
What's Has anything changed?
Or like what has changed?
>> Weirdly, surprisingly little has
changed. Um and I think it's because
these like fundamental truths about like
what makes for great founders go way
back. I mean, you could go back to like
Thomas Edison. And like if we could
interview Thomas Edison, I'll bet he
would sound just like the founders from
today. I'll bet he'd be obsessed with
customers, obsessed with tinkering,
obsessed with building at the edge of
what's possible with technology. And so
like if it hasn't changed since Thomas
Edison, it's not very likely to change
in 20 years. Um
Um what I mean what has changed is that
AI has given the best builders so much
more leverage and it has democratized
the ability to build great stuff to
everyone, which is how we're able to
fund people like the founders of Giga or
audit the founder of Zepto at like age
18 and like they can go on and build
epic companies really, really quickly.
>> I think the speed part seems like the
most tangible immediate thing too where
it's like, "Oh, you can just build you
can just ship that like tomorrow or like
next week, not like a year from now."
>> More like tonight, not tomorrow.
>> Yeah, more like tonight, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I wanted to wrap up with a few
announcements. Um first, all six
companies that you heard from today are
all very actively hiring engineers. One
of the reasons that they came here today
is because they are very interested in
hiring the people in this audience. So,
if anyone is interested in working for
them, you should go apply on their
website for a job um or email the
founders. Um
I will say that if you want to become a
really exceptional founder, one of the
best ways to get there is to go work at
a really exceptional company like the
ones that presented today where you can
learn from the best in
uh business.
Um second announcement is um
there's an incredible roomful of people
here and it would be a shame if
everybody went home and didn't keep in
touch with each other. Like Ankit was
saying, projects are really best done
with two or more people. And so, I would
really encourage you all after after we
finish here to hang out. We're going to
have food and photos on the lawn. We're
going to hand out um swag bags um to
like just like hang out, meet as many
people as possible, exchange numbers,
start WhatsApp groups, keep in touch,
meet up after this, and like start
working on projects with people who who
who you met here. You might even meet
your co-founder right here in this crowd
here today.
>> [applause]
>> Okay, and we saved the most important
announcement for last. Ankit, do you
want to wrap us up by talking about the
credits and what people should do with
it?
>> [applause]
>> This story two things I want to say.
Well, one is that um my introduction to
startups was when in 2013 as a freshman
in college, I went to Startup School in
San Francisco. It was basically the
exact same event as this. Um and we had
some amazing speakers there and I
realized that
the well-trodden path I was on was not
necessarily the one I wanted to stay on.
And I really hope that some of what you
all um heard [snorts] today inspires you
all to consider that as well. And I'm
really excited to
be able to give you guys all the
resources to help starting to do that.
Um and so what I would really love to
see happen um over the next few days is
to see teams form from here or from your
best friends back home, wherever you're
coming from, and for you guys to use
those credits to start building amazing
things. Um you'll all get an email from
us um tonight or tomorrow giving you
access to um all of those credits.
You'll be able to start redeeming them
right away and get them within a few
days. And we're really excited to see
all of the incredible stuff that you
guys built.
>> [applause]
>> That's it from us, folks. Thank you all
so much for being here with us today. We
can't wait to see what you build.
>> [applause]
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.