Title: François Chollet: Why Scaling Alone Isn’t Enough for AGI
Video ID: k2ZLQC8P7dc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k2ZLQC8P7dc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-03-27T14:00:55Z
Duration: PT57M24S
Views: 42389
Likes: 847
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1554

Description:
François Chollet has spent years asking a different question than most of the AI world. Instead of scaling what already works, he’s trying to understand what intelligence actually is—and how to build it from first principles. In this episode of Lightcone, he traces that path from his early work on deep learning to the creation of the ARC prize, and the launch of ARC V3, a new benchmark designed to measure something deeper than performance: the ability to learn, adapt, and reason efficiently in e

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I think we're probably looking at AGI
2030 around the time uh that we're going
to be releasing like maybe AR 6 or AR 7.
You're not going to stop uh AI progress.
I think I think it's too late for that.
And so the next question is okay like AI
progress is here. Uh it's actually going
to keep accelerating. How do you make
use of it? How do you leverage? How do
you ride the wave? That's the question
to ask.
Today we're lucky to be joined by France
Chole, founder of the ARK Prize, a
global competition to solve the ARC AGI
benchmark. His latest project is NDIA, a
lab exploring a new paradigm in frontier
AI research. Francois is one of the best
people in the world to help us
understand the current AI moment and
where all of this is going. Franuis,
thank you so much for joining us today
and congrats on the launch of Arc AGI
V3.
>> Thanks so much for having me. I'm super
excited to be here. Super exciting time
to talk about AI.
>> So Fran, tell us a little bit about
India. So what exactly is it and what
are you guys trying to achieve,
>> right? So NDI is this new AGI research
lab and we are trying some very
different ideas and so our goal is
basically to build this new branch of
machine learning that will be much
closer to optimal unlike unlike deep
learning.
>> All of us right now are sort of taken by
what's going on with code. Uh I have
sort of this viral moment right now
where I got to 40,000 stars this morning
>> on uh GStack. So it's like, oh, this is
an open source project that now is one
of the biggest ones and I have more than
a 100 PRs from contributors to deal
with. I guess you're, you know, one of
the best people to talk to about this
because you're you're actually literally
coming up with something that is a
totally different pathway.
>> That's right. That's right. So uh what
we're doing at India is uh we're doing
program synthesis research. And when I
talk about program synthesis, often
people ask me, oh, so are you doing like
codegen? are you building an alternative
to coding agents and that's actually not
at all what we are doing. We are working
at a much much more uh much lower level
than that. Uh what we're actually doing
is that we are trying to build a new
branch of machine learning an
alternative to deep learning itself uh
rather than like coding agents. Coding
agents are like this very very high
level last layer piece of the stack and
we're actually trying to rebuild the
whole stack on top of different
foundations. So we're building a new
learning substrate that's very different
from you know parametric learning deep
learning. So if you go back to uh the
problem of machine learning you have
some input data some target data and
you're trying to find a function that
will map the inputs to the targets that
will hopefully generalize to new inputs.
And uh if you're doing deep learning
what you're doing is that you have this
parametric curve that serves as your as
your function as your model and you're
trying to fit the parameters of the
curve via cron descent. And this is
basically what we're doing uh except
we're replacing the parametric curve
with a symbolic model that is meant to
be as small as possible. It's like the
simplest uh possible uh model to explain
the data to model what's going on. uh
and of course if you're doing that you
cannot apply descent anymore. So we are
building something that we call symbolic
descent which is like the symbolic space
equivalent of grand descent. The idea is
to build this new machine learning
engine that's giving you uh extremely
concise symbolic models of the data
you're feeding into it and then we're
going to make it scale. And so
everything you're doing with machine
learning today with parametric curves,
we should be able to do it uh with
symbolic models in the future in a in a
way that will be much much closer to
optimality. Much closer to optimality in
the sense that you're going to need much
less data to obtain the models. The
models are going to run much more
efficiently at at inference time because
they're going to be so small. And
because they're so small, they will also
generalize much better and compose much
better. you know the the minimum
description length principle that the
model of the data that is most likely to
generalize is the shortest and I think
you cannot find a model like this if
you're doing parametric learning you
need to you need to try symbolic
>> that's fascinating
>> so the rest of the industry is just
pouring more and more billions of
dollars down an approach that was set
years ago can you like help make the
case for why you think that it's the
right thing to explore alternate
approaches instead of just to keep
putting more money into the current
approach
>> I mean everybody body is uh is uh uh you
know building on top of the LLM stack
these days which makes sense because you
know the the returns are there like it's
actually working so it would seem very
sensible for everybody to just be doing
uh what seems to be the the the
currently most productive path uh but
artic it's it's counterproductive to
have everybody working on the same thing
like I personally don't think that uh
machine learning or AI in 50 years is
still going to be built on this stag I
think this is a stag that is uh very
price maybe it even gets us to ag but
it's not as efficient as it should be. I
think it's inevitable that uh the world
of AI will trend over time towards
optimality and so I'm trying to sort of
like leaprog directly uh to optimality
like to build to build the foundations
of optimal AI today but in general you
know our vision is very ambitious and
I'm not saying that we're going to be
successful like we have maybe a 10 or
15% chance of success uh but that is
enough uh that it's worth trying right
and I think in general like among among
listeners. If you have uh a big idea and
it has very low chance of success, but
uh if it works, it's going to be big and
no one else is going to be working on
it, right? It's it's not something
popular. It's not something if you don't
do it, no one else will do it. And this
is basically our situation. If you're in
this situation, then then you should you
should should try a chance, you know,
should should go and work on it.
>> I mean, that's almost like the mission
statement of why cominator, the thing
that you just said.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. The reason it's important is that
again, if we don't do it, no one else
will do it, right? So it's worth trying.
Even if we don't succeed, it's worth
trying.
>> Has the success well very specifically
of the coding agents I guess built on
top of the LLM stack like has their
success surprised you at all in
particular like say over the last 6
months or so?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think it has
surprised many people. It definitely did
surprise me. If you look at why
everything is is starting to work so
well with squinging agents, it's really
because uh code provides you with a
verifiable reward signal. And I think
right now we're in this situation where
any problem where the solutions you
propose can be uh uh formally verified
and you can actually trust the reward
signal. It's not just some guess made by
a model. Any domain like this uh can be
fully automated with current technology
with with the LM based stack and uh code
is sort of like the first domain to fall
but there will be many others in the
future. I think mathematics is also is
also primed to see a revolution in next
few years for the same reasons again
because the domain just gives you
verifiable rewards. I guess the
challenge for a formally verified domain
is you have to
somehow take a domain and make it
verifiable which is the trick I mean
code is very natural you could test
there's bugs compiles etc and
mathematics as well where there all the
theorems and proofs work out I guess it
becomes more nebulous when you go couple
degrees off where there fields that are
not naturally formally verified and you
need to come up with a
>> again with some sort of a function
to come up with that reward that makes
it verifiable with very fuzzy things
like let's say English language and
composing the perfect essay.
>> How do you make that formally
verifiable?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I mean writing
essays is you know the typical example
of a domain that's not verifiable. And
so what you're going to see is that
progress of reasoning models and and
basel on this type of of of domain is is
you know is going to be very slow
because the stack we're using like the
LM stack is very very reliant on its
training data. It's basically just
operationalizing the train data and for
writing essays the train data is coming
from uh human experts like annotating uh
answers and that's costly. So you're
going to see this very very slow
progress. Maybe maybe it's even going to
stall. But but for any any verifiable
domain like take code for instance what
was the big unlock is uh when uh when
people started creating this codebased
like training environment uh for for
post training uh where the the the
reward signal the verification signal is
provided by things like uh unit tests
and so on. And so that means that uh the
model was not just working from human
pro annotations. It was actually trying
its own things uh verifying the answer
and uh and generating a lot lot more
string data in the process. So a much
denser coverage of the problem space and
not just coverage in terms of like is is
the answer right or wrong but also
starting to build uh models of the
execution traces right. uh so that the
models could start incorporating a an
execution model very much the way that
uh uh human programmers you know when
they look at code they're sort of like
executing the code in their minds they
they keep track of value variables and
so on is also what the models are trying
to do now and this is why it's working
so well and it's possible because you're
working with this very formal fully
verifiable environment you cannot do
that with assess you cannot do that with
you know law or or many other problems
>> I think I really like how you define
intelligence and how we measure it which
brings to the question of uh also
sharing having you share the history of
uh ARGI.
>> Yeah. So my my definition of uh general
intelligence you know many people around
the industry these days they say uh AGI
is going to be a system that can
automate most economically economically
valuable tasks and to me that definition
is it's about automation it's not about
intelligence not about general
intelligence so my definition is uh AGI
is basically going to be a system that
can approach any new problem any new
task any new domain and make sense of it
like model it become competent at it uh
with the same degree of efficiency as a
human could. So meaning it's going to
need basically the same amount of
training data uh and training computes
as as a human would which is which is
very little like humans are really
really uh data efficient. So general
intelligence is human level skill
acquisition efficiency on the on the
same scope of tasks that uh humans could
potentially uh round to do.
>> Do you think it's possible that we will
accomplish the first definition of AGI,
the automate most economically useful
work before we accomplish your
definition?
>> Absolutely. I think that's that's a
trajectory that we're on right now. And
I think it's already true that in
principle current technology can fully
automate at human level or beyond any
domain where you have uh verifiable
rewards, right? And code code being the
first one. And I think figuring out AGI,
figuring out like human level uh you
know learning efficiency over arbitrary
tasks that's probably going to take a
different sort of technology different a
different mindset different approach. Do
you think that LMS can be bent to have
the same sample efficiency as humans or
do you think it's like fundamentally
just impossible and we need a new
approach and that's that's the thing
that you're hoping hoping to solve
>> with enough comput everything starts
looking like everything else every like
computer is a great equalizer every
approach starts looking the same and I
think it's possible in principle to
build something that looks a lot like a
GI on top of the LLM stack uh but it's
not going to be LLMs per se it's going
to
this new layer perhaps you know it's
going to be even a few layers above not
just one layer above but a few layers
above uh but you can build it on top of
LLM because LM are kind of computer
right I see
>> uh I do believe however this would be
the wrong thing to do because it would
be very inefficient I think AI AI
research will have to trend towards not
just efficiency but in fact optimality
over time and for this reason future AI
in a few decades uh it's not going to be
this harness on top of a reasoning model
on top of a basel is going to be much
much lower than that.
>> To Diana's question, do you want to talk
about how you actually designed ARGI and
why it's a good barometer of that?
>> I mean I you know I've been doing deep
learning for a very very long time and
initially my my my tech my mindset was
that deep learning was going to be able
to do everything.
>> You were the creative at KAS before even
all the other frameworks became very
popular.
>> That that's right. That's right. I was a
trained deploying model uh uh for
natural language processing in fact
>> in uh 2014 and uh from that work uh you
know I actually started uh developing
this open source library which I I
released uh in fact uh exactly 11 years
ago uh March March 2015
>> uh so it was kas and and then it got
popular and then I'd end up uh sort of
like doing less of the research that I
that I started kas for and more of
working on the framework itself. just
because it has really really good
product market fit. And so my my take
you know around that time around like
2015 2016 was that deep learning was
extremely general that you could do
everything with deep learning that you
didn't need in anything else. It was
training complete. So uh my tech was
basically that deep learning was
differentiable programming. Uh so
anything you would do with software you
could in principle train a deep learning
model on the right inputs and outputs to
do the same thing. And uh in uh 2016 I
was doing uh research at Google brain on
trying to train deep learning models to
help with uh reasoning problems and in
particular uh first order logic problems
uh uh theorem proving and so on. And I
started finding that you could not
really get cryion descent to encode uh
uh sort of like cresing style
algorithms. It was not because the
models could not represent these
algorithms. It was because cryion
descent could not find them. Right? So
the problem was that it wasn't about
deep learning not being train or
anything like that. Like that was not
the problem. The problem was cryon
descent right descent would not find
generalizable programs. It would instead
uh end up doing uh overfeit pattern
matching right over over sequences of uh
uh input tokens
>> which I guess people could argue like
that's what's happening. I mean this see
what's happening today in a in a in a
slightly
>> it's it's a slightly high higher level
version of
>> it's with a lot of data so it doesn't
feel like overfitting because the data
has a lot more distribution
>> with a lot more data and also I think
models today uh they're a lot more
compressive of the data which is why
where they they generalize better
>> all models are wrong but some models are
useful and then I guess what I'm hearing
is like your method might find the right
model
>> that's right that's uh that's uh where
where the idea came from and I was like,
you know, at the time in back in 2016,
2017, I was like, okay, we're going to
need a a benchmark to capture the ideas.
>> Uh we're going to need a program
synthesis benchmark.
>> And uh my my mental model for that was
ImageNet.
>> I was like, oh, I'm going to make the
imageet of reasoning. So, I started
brainstorming a few ideas around like
2017. I explored many different things.
Uh I tried working with uh in part solar
automator like u a setup where you show
a model uh solar automator outputs and
it must recreate uh the program that
generated them like that sort of thing.
Uh and eventually I settled on the uh
RGI format uh around like early 2018.
You know I was doing this on the side.
It was a side project like my main
project was uh developing kas at Google.
I wasn't moving very that very fast uh
on that. Uh so summer 2018 uh I wrote
the ARC task editor and then I started
just making lots of tasks by hand and
about one year later I had made 10,000
tasks and so I wrote up uh the paper
that was explaining what this was about
what the big idea was like intelligence
as as skill acquisition efficiency and
and I published all of that in in 2019.
In parallel, GB3 2020 was coming out and
starting to show signs until the chat
GBD moment around 2022, end of the year
and the industry took off with that and
this was one of the benchmark that it
was really performing really badly and
it was very obscure. I don't think many
people knew about it. It was mostly
niche research communities that maybe
read your paper.
>> Yeah, people who worked on programs this
knew about it. uh but a lot of people
who worked on on deep learning on
scaling up LLMs they didn't really care
for it and part of the reason why is
because LMS did not work well or at all
on the benchmark but benchmark to
capture the attention of the research
community it needs to start working a
little right uh if it's too hard people
are are just going to dismiss it
>> you're just ahead of your time clearly
because we're not on ARC AGI one anymore
and then two is reaching saturation
And then that's right
>> three is out now.
>> Yes.
>> And I think the cool thing about RKGI it
has been a very good barometer for the
industry of the big changes that
happened because V1 was not working at
all for a long time until 2025
when reasoning models came out. Right.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. If you look at uh PRI
performance on arc v1 first and then v2
uh so bas uh we're scoring extremely low
on v1 like sub 10% basically and I mean
it was true of uh the original like GP3
scoring zero but that's even true of the
latest basel lamps today you know as of
as of March
>> without reason without reasoning
>> without reasoning yeah so the base
models so performance of of basel lamps
on on v1 stayed very very low even
though in the meantime you know we had
scaled up these models by 50,000x right
so it was really telling you that you
know more scale scaling up pre-training
alone was not going to crack the
benchmark this was not enough to
demonstrate that the model had fluid
intelligence and then uh the moment uh
models started performing well on ark1
was with the first reasoning models in
part uh the openi 01 and then 03 uh
models which by the way they were
demonstrated by openi on arc because it
was the one unsaturated reasoning
benchmark that was really showing that
this model was different that that new
capabilities that we had not seen before
and so with reasoning models you start
seeing this sudden like step function
change uh on on ark1 and so ar1 was
really the benchmark that signaled that
at this moment in time something was
happening and
>> something big
>> yeah something big like new capabilities
were emerging like reasoning was new and
different and it was actually not
obvious at the time like you know I
don't know if you remember when uh when
03 uh preview was was announced by open
eye
>> that was end of 2024 actually
>> yeah December 2024 and like sure it was
like huge like step function progress on
arc uh but it was very expensive we did
not really have product market fit
effectively but if you looked at uh at
arc results you knew that this was big
and important and Then we released AR2
which was the same format but uh more
difficult like with more uh uh
composition uh at the level of the the
the reasoning chains. And what happened
is that so the the earliest reasoning
models started very very low on R2 and
then around the same time as coding
agents started working you saw this
>> yeah so very very recent just few months
ago you saw this uh very very fast like
saturation of R2 and so again like R2
signaled that yes there was this this
new set of capabilities emerging. I
think the benchmark did a really good
job at capturing the advant of reasoning
models and then the advance uh of
agentic coding like this this new
paradigm where if you have uh verifiable
rewards then you can basically fully
automate uh the domain which by the way
is true of arc like arc does provide a
verifiable reward
>> I guess for v2 what what caused the so
one was clearly reasoning two a
benchmark doesn't care how you solve it
I guess embedded in what you said like
were people using codegen to then solve.
>> That's right. So not not necessarily
codegen uh per se but uh the frontier
labs have been targeting arc v2 and uh
the progress you saw on arc v2 is
actually a result uh of this very very
large scale targeting. So what you can
do to solve RG2 is you ask your
reasoning model to make more tasks like
those in the benchmark uh and then you
try to solve them using let's say let's
say program induction for instance uh
still using your reasoning model then
you verify the solution again it's
verifiable so you can you can trust uh
the answer um and then you fine-tune the
model on the successful reasoning chains
and then you keep repeating like you
generate new tasks you solve them you
verify the solution you fine tune the
model on the reasoning chains and um you
can keep doing this millions of times
right like you just need to spend more
money
>> this is the RL loop that happening yeah
>> and the the new paradigm in AI is
basically that any domain where this is
true where you have the ability to join
these this true uh verification signals
you you can run this this kind of loop
right if you can run this kind of loop
you can mine uh you can brute force mine
effectively the entire space and get
extremely high performance. This is
basically the the process through which
AR2 was saturated. So what it tells you
is that it's not so much that the models
have higher fluid intelligence uh than
than they did with the with the first
models. It's just that you have this new
paradigm of post training. And this is
exactly what led to agency coding. So it
does matter. It is it is valuable. It is
useful.
>> It's not that the models are smarter.
It's that they're suddenly more useful.
It is possible to be more useful in
particular domains without being
smarter. Yeah, clearly because that's
means good things for me. I'm not
getting any smarter right now like at
you know age 45. But you know I can
learn how to do things and that's sort
of what's happening with the models as
of like late.
>> Yeah, absolutely. When it comes to uh
competency, there's always a trade-off
between intelligence and knowledge. If
you have more knowledge, if you have
better training, uh you need less
intelligence to be competent. And that's
exactly uh what happened with the the
rise of coding agents, right? The models
don't have higher fluid intelligence per
se. They don't have like a higher uh IQ,
so to speak. It's just that they're way
better trained, and they're way better
trained in in two ways. So, they're not
just trying to autocomplete code
anymore. They're actually trained via
trial and error in these
posturing environments with you know
true reward signals and also they're
trained uh to embed this uh model of
code execution right where they they
they they learn to keep track of the
value of variables uh uh over an
execution cycle and that's what what's
leading to this extremely strong product
market fit of agency coding today and
it's really it's completely changing
software engineering
>> this happened not too long ago the
saturation we actually at the founders
of poetic that came and spoke about the
approach
>> which is really sounds like this new way
of uh getting LM to perform is building
this agent hardness right and the
hardness is basically structuring a
problem domain into something that can
be formally verified and they did that
basically for ARC v2 which when they
released it they were at the top of the
benchmark but then the crazy thing is I
actually worked with a company in the
winter 26 batch not too long ago called
Confluence Labs which actually ended up
saturating the V2 results with 97% and I
think their task cost was uh a lot more
efficient too and the approach they
basically took is similar to this. I
think they built the harnesses on top of
it in order to get the LMS to to go and
build different tasks and program
through it.
>> Yeah. which then for me I was like wow
is this batch and during the batch they
only worked on it for a couple of months
and they were able to saturate this
batch that has been around for a long
time. It's like something special is
happening.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of progress
right now. It's driven by a custom
harnesses around the task and the
harness is basically a way for the the
human programmer to um input into the
model like higher level like uh solution
strategies basically. I mean to me the
fact that you need humans to engineer
these harnesses is also a sign that
we're we're short of AGI today because
if we had AGI you know AI would just
make its own harness it would not need
to be told how to solve a problem it
will just figure it out but it is very
effective like harnesses I don't think
they get us closer to AGI in any sense
but it's a very valuable area of
research because that can lead to task
automation at scale
>> YC's next batch is now taking
applications got a startup in Apply at y
combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> Can you tell us about then what V3 is
going to measure that's uh just got
released?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, if you look at V1,
V2, uh it was really focusing on your
ability to uh produce like causal models
uh of a pattern that was just given to
you like the data was given to you. Uh
so it was static, it was uh passive and
really focused on uh modeling and uh v3
is completely different. We are trying
to measure uh agentic intelligence. So
it's interactive, it's active like the
data is not provided to you. You must go
get it. The idea is that your agent is
dropped into a new environment which is
kind of like a a mini video game. And
it's not provided any instructions. It's
not told what to do. it's not told uh
what the goal even is or what the
controls even are and it must figure out
everything on its own via trial and
error. So we are we are not just uh
measuring you know the uh the AI's
ability to model its environment we're
also looking at uh its exploration
efficiency its ability to acquire goals
on its own like goal setting and of
course its ability to plan uh through
the model of the environment that's
created and and to execute the plan. Uh
and so together, you know, all all of
these abilities, we call that agentic
intelligence. And we are looking for AI
systems that could learn to play these
games and and you know, crack them with
the same degree of action efficiency as
a human. If you look at the human, they
are dropped into this new environment.
They they try a few things. They start
understanding how things work. Uh they
can they can solve the environment, you
know, in in a few hundreds to thousands
factions. We're trying to look for AI
systems that could match uh this
efficiency. And by the way, we know that
all of these test environments in R3 are
solvable by humans with no prior
training because we actually uh tested
them uh on on regular people. Yeah. At
first, you just see this screen and you
you know you have these keys available,
but you don't know what they do and you
must figure out everything from scratch.
And humans are really good at that by
the way. They're really good at
exploring efficiently at making sense of
something new and eventually cracking
the game. And frontier models today,
they're not very good at it. If the
reasoning models cracked V1 and the like
reinforcement learning environments
cracked V2, did do we need a new advance
to crack V3? Did the did do even the
best techniques currently like not work?
>> Yeah, I mean, I'm pretty curious to see
how Frontier Labs are going to react to
V3 and how they're going to start to
target it. um it is designed to be more
resistant uh to the same kind of
darkness strategy as what we saw for V2
in particular. Like of course you can
try to just make more AR3 like games and
then train your agents uh in them. Um
but the thing is we've uh deliberately
tried to create a private set of
environments that is significantly
different from the public set like you
can look at the public set. actually
giving you that much information about
what's in the private set.
>> Uh in the private set you will have very
different games with very different
concepts
>> and also the public set is meant to be
substantially easier performance on the
public set is not actually it's not
representative of how well the system
would prioritize. So for this reason
it's going to be harder to target
>> and that makes it a better test of fluid
intelligence as opposed to a test of how
much effort you put into into cracking
it.
>> I'm so curious how do you come up with
these games? They're so creative.
>> Yeah, we set up an entire uh video game
studio, right, to to create them. Uh so
we got over 250 games. Uh and you know,
they they're pretty quick to play. Like
each game takes you maybe 10 minutes or
or or a bit less uh uh to play from
scratch, like upon first contact. And we
have like 250 plus. And uh we set up
this uh very productive game studio
where we had any given week we had
multiple games uh in progress. We're
like this this pipeline uh including you
know design implementation uh review
human testing and and and many many
iteration cycles to to to make sure that
the the game comes out right. Who who's
working in the studio?
>> Right. Uh we yeah we hired a team of
game developers and we built our own
game engine.
>> Wow. So so it's actually people who like
previously worked in the game in the in
the video game industry.
>> That's right. That's right. So, one
thing to keep in mind though is that the
games in Oxy are unique, right? They're
they're trying to not borrow elements,
concepts from previous video games. Uh
they're built entirely on top of core
knowledge prior like things like just
just you know elementary knowledge like
basic physics uh understanding of
objects uh understanding of the notion
of agents for instance like an agent in
objects with goals and int intentions.
Um but we we're not incorporating any
language any like cultural symbols like
you know arrows for instance uh or the
color green meaning go and color red
meaning star that sort of thing. Uh
there's no external knowledge that's
involved uh in these games.
>> It's like one of those uh IQ tests that
are just pattern matching but now it has
time series.
>> Yeah. Uh it's not just time series it's
interactive. must create your own path
through game space, right? You you must
>> you know in in in an acutest like
problem like you know what ARK one and
two is the data that you must model is
provided to you. You already have the
data you just you just need to find the
causal rule to explain it with AR3
actually must gather the data
>> uh and you must do so efficiently. Like
of course you could say well I'm just
going to you know brute force mine uh
the space of every possible game state
and then I find the solution. You cannot
do that because if you try to do that
you would score extremely low even if
you manage to solve the level uh because
you're scored on your efficiency. You
must match human level efficiency.
>> It's funny it's like almost coming full
circle. This level of AGI
with games sort of is the match pair to
open AI writing. I mean, you know, Tom
Brown, uh, one of the co-founders of
Anthropic, had to write like the harness
code to allow like the, you know, preGPT
AI at OpenAI to play Starcraft.
>> Yeah. Yeah. OpenAI worked on on uh in
part on on Dota 2. uh they had the
openi5 model which was if I recall
correctly. So this was like not just pre
GPD but also mostly pre transformers
because they were working with a stack
of LSTM
>> uh layers if I recall correctly and even
before open pony uh deep mine worked a
lot on video game uh uh you know solving
video games via deep aisle uh and they
were the first to do uh Atari games
right back in 2013 that you know they
were very very early very very visionary
in that sense to to work on on this
problem so early with methods which are
still very modern methods. So the big
difference is that if you look at um at
games for instance you're training uh on
on the same environment as what you use
for testing. So effectively you're just
trying to memorize the best strategies.
you're trying to uh at at training time
explore the full uh space of possible
game states and productionize
operationalize
uh that knowledge into into into the
model and then at inference time you're
basically just recalling that knowledge
and that's explicitly what we're trying
to avoid with AR 3. Uh you're not
playing games uh that you've seen
before. You're not playing games that
you've been trained on like for millions
of files. Like the OpenI5 model for
instance was playing a restricted
version of Dota 2 and it was trained on
like tens of thousands of hours of
gameplay effectively. I think maybe in
millions just an insane amount of
training data. With AR 3, you're being
evaluated on games that you're seeing
for the very first time and every action
you spend exploring is counted towards
your efficiency score. Right? So you're
really focused on measuring fluid
intelligence, your ability to
efficiently explore, efficiently produce
a world model uh of the environment and
then use this model uh to infer goals uh
plan towards these goals uh and and
eventually crack the game. One of the
arguments for um you know India is that
you're able to do all of the intelligent
tasks for you know an arc task might be
like.3
you know cents for an arc task but you
know for the same task on a foundation
model with LLMs it's you know a dollar
to $10 and then there's this other
aspect that we've been tracking where it
seems like uh more and more intelligence
um at least on the LLM side uh can be
distilled down into smaller and smaller
models. And so on the one hand like
they're scaling up but then they're like
distilling smarter and smarter small
models. I guess your approach might
indicate that it's not billions of
parameters like the you know achieving
AGI might not be you know sort of
inherently a scale thing at all. There's
a platonic ideal of the NDIA model that
achieves AGI.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Do you ever think about it in terms of
like well it would fit on a floppy disc?
>> Well, okay. There there are two things
to separate. There's the sort of like
fluid intelligence engine.
>> I think it's going to be a very very
small code base uh and a very small set
of models associated with it and it's
probably going to be on the order of
megabytes, right? And then you have the
knowledge base so to speak uh that's
going to be uh layered below this this
fluid intelligence engine like you know
fluid intelligence has to draw on some
knowledge and that knowledge is going to
take up a lot more space. I think it's
it's it's important to to differentiate
the two. I do believe that you know when
we create a GI retrospectively it will
turn out that it's a code base that's
less than 10,000 lines of code
>> and that if you had if you had known
about it back in the in the 1980s you
could have done AGI back then using the
comput resources available back then
>> wow that's a crazy prediction
>> that's I I think retrospectively this
will turn out to be to be true.
>> Wow. So it was just like hiding under
our noses in plain sight for like 40
years. It took us like 40 years to
figure it out.
>> That's right. That's right.
>> Well, that second thing sounds like
Douglas Lenat's like psych project. Or
is that the wrong way to think about it?
It's like there's sort of knowledge
about the world
>> and then there's methods like the
program what I hear is like the program
might be 10,000 lines and then it
operates on like
>> on knowledge base that's very large. So
the problem with psych uh I mean there
were many issues with it but one of the
big issues is that uh there was no
learning involved.
>> Yeah. It's just the knowledge like
>> the knowledge wasn't crafted.
>> It's like purely symbolic knowledge and
it was probably inaccurate.
>> The way you want to be building a GI is
that you want to be removing humans uh
from from the improvement loop as much
as possible. You don't want a system
where every improvement in system
capability has to involve a human
engineer doing something. And it's
actually the strength uh of deep
learning and foundation models is that
you can just scale up the knowledge
base. Like an LLM is effectively
knowledge base. It's a bank uh of uh of
you know modular uh vector programs that
map patterns of input tokens to patterns
of output tokens. And you can you can
scale up that knowledge base by just
adding training data and training
compute with no further human
involvement. I mean, of course, there's
still a little bit of human involvement
in in making sure the train job
completes, but it's it's minor. You've
managed to remove humans uh from this
improvement as much as possible. And
that's also uh what we want for our
system. We want a system that's uh
self-improving where the improvements
are compounding, meaning that every time
the system increases capabilities, it's
also increasing the rate at which it
increases its capabilities.
>> I think this is a PGism. It's like, I'm
sorry the essay is so long. uh if I had
more time I would make it shorter.
>> Yeah. When you're looking at at a hard
problem it's actually harder to produce
a short elegant concise solution than a
messy overengineered solution.
>> Yeah, you can brute force it but you
know the more elegant version is very
very short and that's kind of like what
you said with how this might come about.
This is this is yeah this is literally
the shape of the type of AI approach uh
we are creating and I think this is also
the shape uh of science itself like
science is fundamentally a a symbolic
compression process where you're looking
at a big mess of observations like you
know the the position of planets in the
sky or something like that and you're
compressing that down to uh a very
simple symbolic rule. You're saying like
yeah like all these you know thousands
of observations actually just all uh
this one simple equation that's symbolic
compression and to do this by the way uh
you need the model uh to be symbolic
like you you could not fit a curve and
say well you know that that curve is my
model that would never be optimal it
would never be concise or elegant enough
and that's not what science is doing.
Science is not about curve fitting.
Science is about finding the equation,
finding the most compressive symbolic
model of your pile of observation. And
that's the process that you're trying to
recreate in software form. Like you
could say that uh the NDI approach to
program synthesis is that we are
building science incarnate science the
scientific method in in algorithmic
form. I'm curious if you compare it to
biology. Clearly LMS don't learn the way
that humans do cuz no baby reads the
whole internet. Do you think program
synthesis is closer to the way that
humans learn or do you think that's yet
a third branch where even if program
synthesis is correct there will be some
yet as undiscovered third way to do it
which is the thing that we do
>> I think so uh I do think humans do some
amount of program synthesis I think the
the way humans learn and the way the the
human mind works is very messy it's not
like there's one simple elegant
principle behind it all it's an
implementation of fundamental principles
the fundamental principles of of
intelligence which you know I think we
can identify these principles and
reimplement intelligence from scratch
from first principles in a way that will
be much more efficient than the human
brain. I think the human brain is messy
and it's it can be a good source of
inspiration for AI but I think it would
be counterproductive to just try uh to
you know observe it and reimplement it
like uh and and and make it biologically
plausible. Uh I think that's
counterpart. That's not what we're
trying to do at India. We're really
trying to find what are the first
principles of intelligence and what is
the system that would best implement
them. But yeah, I do believe the human
mind does at the highest level uh
something that looks a lot like
programs. It's like we're currently
building causal models of our
surroundings like we're we're describing
our surroundings in our mind as you know
a set of objects and agents and and
relations uh pin objects uh that are
fundamentally symbolic and causal in
nature. This is exactly the process that
lets us uh generalize so well and adapt
so well to novelty on the fly. I'm
curious about NDIA the company and as
you're as you're building it um we've
all here heard of the OpenAI founding
story and something that's always struck
with me is just like both Sam and Greg
say that it was a little odd in the
early days cuz you didn't actually know
what to do just like bunch of people
like hanging out in an apartment. I
would love to hear kind of what's that
been like for India like what did like
the day one look like and just maybe for
just people who are interested in
starting these alternative approaches
who don't have sort of a researchy
background how should they think about
that
>> yeah so we we started on day one with
the symbolic learning vision like we
basically knew that we wanted to do uh
symbolic program synthesis that we
wanted to create a new approach to
machine learning where you replace
parameter curves with the shortest
possible symbolic models and And the big
question was okay so how do we find
these models? We started from uh the the
the base idea which is still the idea
that we're following today which is that
we are doing we are going to do uh deep
learning guided program search that you
have a a symbolic search space to
explore and it's big it's in fact
communal you're not going to make
progress uh if you just use brute force
uh it's not going to scale uh you have
to break the comal wall and the way to
do it is to add is to add uh deep
learning guidance it's actually very
similar to uh the principles that end
something like alpha or alpha zero. So
it was our our starting point. We also
you know didn't have very clear ideas
about how to how to build it. So we we
tried many different things. We tried
many many different ideas and um it took
us half a year roughly uh to to to get
to good foundations uh where we we could
start building a system that compounds.
And I think that's what's really
important uh when when doing a lab like
this that you don't want to be in a
situation where you're you're constantly
trying something new. It's not reusing
any learnings, any findings uh from the
previous approaches. You want you want a
compounding stack. You want to build
reusable foundations and then the next
layer and then the next layer and the
the the and of course you you want to be
building onto the right foundation. So
don't uh commit to the to the foundation
layer too early, but also make sure that
at some point you're building this this
compounding structure and that that's
that's the situation that that we're in
now.
>> Is ARK 3 the end or will there be an ARK
four, five, six? Can you keep making it
harder?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think there there will
absolutely be ARK 4 and and AR five. I
mean, we're currently planning ARK 5. Um
the the point of the AKGI benchmark
series is not to say that well, you
know, here's this test. if you pass it,
this is a GI. Um, instead what we're
trying to do is we're target we're
targeting uh the residual gap of fair
capabilities like frontier is advancing
and we're saying well uh if you compare
it to to to human abilities there
there's all these tasks all these things
it's now doing well so we're going to
create a benchmark to target that. uh
and so it's a moving target, right? It's
it's not fixed point. It's a moving
target. So there will be ARK 4 which
will be uh in the spirit of ARK 3 but
more focused on continual learning and
and curriculum learning at longer time
scales. So you're you're going to have
fewer games uh but they're going to have
way more levels and the levels are going
to be compounding meaning that for for
each level you need to reuse stuff that
you've learned before. Then there's
going to be Ark 5. And I'm actually
really really excited about Ark 5. It's
very very new and different and it's all
about invention and I mean you will see
you will see what that means. Eventually
I expect we will we will run out of
things to test like as uh as we get
closer to AGI um eventually there will
be no measurable difference uh between
human capabilities and part human
learning efficiency and and frontier AI
and when that happens when when it
becomes effectively impossible to
measure the gap this is the GI moment.
Well, then the machines will take over
and then they will create ARC ASI one.
>> Yes. ARS
>> and then it'll continue from there.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. If you had to put a guess, I mean
years, decades, months.
uh my timeline to AGR, you know, if you
if you just try to to extrapolate from
the the current rate of progress and the
amount of investment that's going into
not just the LLM stack, but also like uh
side ideas, side bets that might work
out like you know, NDI for instance, I
think we're probably looking at AGI
2030,
early 2030s uh most likely. So around
the time uh that you are going to be
releasing like maybe AR 6 or AR 7 uh
that's probably going to be a GI.
>> You guys are doing a different approach
to LLM. Um do you think there's room for
more startups to explore other new
approaches and are there any other ones
that you think are promising but don't
have time to explore yourself?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean there are many
different approaches that you could try.
I've said like compute is is a great
equalizer. I think if you look at the
amount of comput and resources that
we've thrown at uh deep learning and and
gradient descent and and scaling that up
if you had thrown the same amount of
investment into almost anything else you
would also have seen extremely exciting
results like genetic algorithms for
instance uh if you try to scale up
genetic algorithms I mean I'm sure you
can do incredible things with that um
you could in fact probably do new
science uh because uh that's based on
search and search is the is is the best
fit for uh automating the scientific
method. uh I think so right now there's
also like approaches that uh build on
top of the current stack with their
slightly alternative like uh state space
models for instance uh there's the the
XLSM architecture like you you can
basically you know current frontier is
it's it's a stack of things and you you
can take any layer in the stack and try
to propose an alternative like if you
propose an alternative architecture uh
you can be doing for instance like yeah
like more like uh recurrent models
instead of transformers uh for for the
architecture. Uh or you can do even
lower level. You're going to be like,
okay, we're still going to be training
uh parametric curves, but you're going
to get rid of cranes descent, right?
We're going to use like search. Maybe
you're going to do new evolution. Uh
that's that's lower level. And the
lowest level is uh the the level where
where we're operating where we're saying
well actually uh forget about curves uh
forget about parametric, forget about
crown descent. We're just going to do
something completely different. Um and I
think if you want to build optimal AI,
you're kind of forced to go back to the
foundation of the stack. It cannot be
like uh uh one one layer added on top of
the pile.
>> So do you think for aspiring researchers
to want to do a new neolab with a
different approach, they should be
reading research papers from the 70s or
80s and
>> go deeply in those with approaches that
were not as invested nowadays. That is
actually a great idea because uh earlier
in the in the history of the EI research
timeline, people were exploring more
things and very different things. You've
had this sort of like collapse of
everything into one approach. It's
actually kind of a bad idea. Uh like
consider that not too long ago, like
about about 20 years ago,
>> we had the collapse into SVMs, too.
>> Yeah. I mean it wasn't I wouldn't
describe it as a collapse because there
weren't that many people doing SVMs and
AI was a much much uh smaller field back
then but there was this uh uh widespread
understanding that neural networks were
were a failed approach that neuronet
networks didn't work and it it was waste
of time to to keep trying right
>> yeah no even even in the in the in the
late 2000s this was a set of things
basically like when I got into into AI
people are telling me like hey neuronet
networks don't try that I was like yeah
but it it looks a lot like what the
brain is doing like I'm I'm interested
in that if everybody is working on
something you are discarding ideas that
will uh actually turn out to be very
productive ideas right and yeah like
back in the 70s back in the 80s people
are trying more things and I think
genetic algorithms actually a very good
example of that uh I think this is an
approach that has a tremendous amount of
potential but there's there's not too
many people are looking into scaling it
up uh deeply.
>> Are there any characteristics that you
would be looking for? I mean is it as
simple as like if there's a scaling law
that could happen then even if it's a
different or is it is that too like you
know thinking by analogy
>> I think you are looking for approaches
that scale.
>> Yeah. Uh I think it's it's a
non-starter. If you're working on
something but the only way to increase
the capabilities of the system is to
have uh human engineers and researchers
spend time on it, it will not work
because even if the idea is very clever
and very elegant and works really well,
capabilities are going to be bounded.
They're going to be bounded by human
investment. Right? You want to be in a
setup where the system can improve its
capabilities with no human in the loop,
with no human.
like don't just do it the way we did it
like 10 years ago. Do it with the idea
that recursive self-improvement is baked
in at the beginning.
>> Yeah. Not necessarily recursive
self-improvement because deep learning
for instance not is not recursively
self-improving but with the idea of
scaling up with no human bottlenecks.
You want to remove the human from from
the improvement loop. The great strength
of deep learning is that the models got
better and better simply by adding uh uh
training training compute and training
data. I mean it's it's a little bit of
caricature because of course just adding
these factors requires a lot of human
involvement but basically that's the
idea that you have this decoupling from
uh the improvement curve and the amount
of human effort that's needed to be
injected into the system.
>> I guess or human effort that's already
happened because the LMS do actually
require an enormous amount of human
effort. It's just it was the human
effort to build the internet and we'd
already built it.
>> Yeah. Actually less and less now uh that
we are doing uh training in interactive
verifiable environments
>> because then
>> you only need a small amount of human
effort to create the environment and
from that small amount of effort you're
you're creating exponentially more
training data. But at first I think to
sort of like prime the machine you need
this tremendous amount uh of uh of uh uh
human generated abstractions encoded in
text data and if you if you don't start
from that you you cannot get the system
into this loop. Do you have any advice
for me uh starting a open source
project? Things to do, things not to do
in uh in the AI space because I am uh
not sure how I signed up for this in the
last 14 days, but I think I have I don't
know on the order of like 10 to 30,000
people using GStack every day.
>> Yeah, it's wild.
>> Yeah. And I don't know like I have a job
I guess like you know what was it like
to start Keras and how did you keep
maintaining it? How what's a good
maintainer like what did you learn from
that? I don't know this might be a whole
hour.
>> Yeah I mean lots lots of learnings from
>> too many things
>> from growing growing kas. Uh so right
now I'm less involved with it. Uh
there's a big team at Google that's
working on it and they're doing an
amazing job. So it is possible to not
you know to put people together to like
>> it is possible to start something. It is
possible to start something and and and
then get more people involved and at
some point it becomes its own thing.
It's just you know it used to be your
baby but now it's all it's all grown up.
It's all adult and and and going on with
its own life. So if you ask me the the
factors that really made car successful
um I mean first of all is that there was
this big focus on uh making the the API
simple and intuitive. There was this big
big focus on usability and this was
inspired by scikitlearn like scikitlearn
was sort of like the og uh machine
learning library for python and what
made it successful was that it was so
easy to get started with it. So at first
I was like okay uh I'm going to package
uh all this functionality I've created
under a really really simple API going
to be like the second API that was like
the big idea. The focus on usability is
not just making sure the API is simple.
It's also making sure the entire on
boarding experience is nice and easy
like the docs should be very
informative. You should, you know, the
doc should be not just telling you about
how to use this thing, but they should
actually be teaching you about the
domain in the first place because the
the folks who land on your website,
they're not going to be already deep
learning experts. They're going to be
people looking to maybe start using deep
learning. And so you you have to teach
them not just how to use the tool, but
what the tool is good for um and and the
entire field around it. And then uh you
know you have to put a lot of investment
into community building. Um one thing we
uh we did a bit at Google in fact you
know Google made it kind kind of
difficult and and I was sad about that
is uh hire your power users
>> like hire your fans. This this is a
really really good idea like find find
the the most enthusiastic users from
your community and and and just hire
them on your team.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah. and uh these are the always the
best people, right?
>> All right, time to start gstack.org. Uh
put in a bunch of my own money and then
hire a bunch of people to work on it.
That sounds good. I think you've been a
leader in pioneer and we're so lucky to
have you sit with us. There are people
watching who are at the beginning of
their, you know, adulthood even like
their certainly their professional
careers uh or actually like people just
around the world. They're like trying to
understand like what does this mean as
intelligence becomes broadly applicable
like what would you tell you know if you
were 18 right now what would you tell
them
>> yeah I mean there's a lot of people
today who are very uh pessimistic very
negative takes about the the rise in the
capabilities they say oh you know uh I'm
going to be out of a job soon uh there's
going to be mass unemployment uh AI is
just going to take over completely and
my my tech is actually you know the more
you know the more expertise you have but
things like programming for instance the
better you're able to use and leverage
these tools for your own benefit and
with the right kind of expertise uh all
this AI progress is actually empowerment
like it's something that you can
leverage for yourself I mean that's
that's exactly what you did with your
project right
>> and yeah more people should have this
mindset of trying to learn as much as
possible not just about AI uh but about
the the domain that they want uh uh to
apply AI to, right? So that they should
they should seek to turn this uh uh this
this new development into an opportunity
into into a tool they can use for
themselves to improve their own lives. I
think that's that's the right mindset
because you know you're not going to
stop uh AI progress. I think I think
it's too late for that. And so the next
question is okay like AI progress is
here. Uh it's actually going to keep
accelerating. How do you make use of it?
How do you leverage? How do you ride a
wave? That's the question to ask.
>> I wish we could uh keep going for a
couple hours cuz I'm sure we could.
Francois, thank you so much for spending
time with us.
>> Thanks so much for having me.