Title: BillionToOne Is Solving One of Biotech’s Hardest Problems
Video ID: kkv5rZhrLkc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kkv5rZhrLkc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-04-06T14:01:12Z
Duration: PT20M50S
Views: 38049
Likes: 1318
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 551

Description:
1 in 11 babies born in America this year will be screened by a genetic test that didn't exist a decade ago.

Biotech startup BillionToOne turned a simple but radical idea—detecting rare fragments of fetal DNA in a mother's blood—into one of the most widely used prenatal tests in the U.S. And they're not stopping there. The same approach could unlock something even bigger: early-stage cancer detection from a blood test, a breakthrough that could one day save millions of lives.

In this episode of

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

One in 11 babies born in America this
year will be screened by a genetic test
that didn't exist a decade ago.
Can you articulate like the needle in
the haystack problem that you have to
solve? There are 3 billion base pairs in
the human genome and a lot of the human
diseases that we are detecting from
mom's blood, sickle cell disease, cystic
fibrosis, etc. It's usually only one
base pair that's different. So, you're
looking for one base pair that's
different out of billions and that's
where the Billion to One name came from.
The prenatal test from Billion to One is
already one of the most widely used
genetic tests, but that's just step one.
They're also working towards solving one
of the most elusive problems in
medicine. We are maybe
less than a year away from launching
our, you know, ultra-sensitive
MRD test, minimal residual disease test
for stage one two cancer patients. And
that same technology could one day be
used for early stage detection so that
the cancer can be caught before it ever
reaches stage one. Once we are there, I
think technically we would have solved
the, you know, holy grail of cancer
detection. Billion to One was built by
two PhD students who started with a half
a lab bench and $300,000.
So, how did they pull it off? And what
will it take to make a blood test that
detects cancer early?
This is the story of Billion to One.
I met Oge and David way back in 2017
when they applied to YC. They've come a
long way since then. I recently visited
them at their lab in Union City,
California to hear the full story.
I'm so excited to get to sit down with
you guys today. To start with, why don't
you tell everybody what Billion to One
does? Billion to One is a next
generation molecular diagnostics
company. We detect DNA in blood samples.
This is important because all of our
different tissues shed this DNA into the
bloodstream. This includes
fetus, a developing baby in mother's
womb, it releases DNA into the
bloodstream, and cancer as well. You
know, as cancer is mutating and growing,
it releases its DNA into the
bloodstream. By detecting this DNA, we
can develop diagnostics that have been
impossible even a decade ago. And all
their hard work is paying off. Late last
year, they took the company public at a
valuation over $4 billion.
So
can you guys give us a sense of the
scale that you guys are operating at
here? We are processing more than
600,000
tests a year, and in terms of the
overall market share, we are close to
20% market share there. Remarkably, the
core idea behind Billion to One is the
same as when they applied to YC back in
2017. They were convinced it should be
possible to create a prenatal genetic
test that works by sequencing fragments
of fetal DNA that naturally exist in the
mother's blood, and that this would
someday be universally adopted. This was
a radical idea at the time. Before
Billion to One, most genetic
abnormalities could only be detected via
amniocentesis, an invasive procedure
that is only used in high-risk
pregnancies. What was the key insight
that enabled you guys to do this when no
one else was able to do it before? We
have realized that DNA that is coming
from the fetus and the tumor is both
very dilute and rare.
Right, so you might only have a few
molecules among billions of other
molecules. So, every molecular
diagnostics approach here requires, in
the lab, using a process called PCR to
amplify this DNA billions of fold.
The problem is that this DNA
amplification process can add tremendous
noise, so that the small signal that you
have can be lost. So, what we have done
is to add a synthetic
DNA into the patient sample that we get
before any amplification happens. This
synthetic DNA allow us to know how much
amplification happened at different
genomic locations and know what are the
errors that are being introduced by the
amplification process. So, then we can
remove those errors from the sequencing
data, the data that we get at the end,
so that we know what was in the sample
to begin with. That converts a difficult
biology problem to almost a simple
mathematical problem. Let's break that
down even further. Every tissue in your
body sheds tiny fragments of DNA into
your bloodstream.
Hidden inside that mix can be a fragment
from a fetal condition or sign of
cancer, but detecting it is a needle in
a haystack problem.
Traditional genetic tests amplify
everything, including the background
noise, which means they can't find the
needle.
Billion to one has a clever trick.
Before amplifying, they add known
synthetic DNA molecules to the sample.
Because they know exactly what they
added, they can see how much distortion
the amplification introduced and
subtract the noise using machine
learning. The result is that they can
spot things no other test can pick up.
I want to go back to the first couple of
years of the company and talk about how
you went from PhD students who had a
cool idea to an actual commercial test
that was live and processing samples
from real patients. Tell us about how
you did it and how you did it so fast
cuz you guys did it in two years, which
is like one of the fastest I've ever
heard of a company doing this. Hou and I
we had met actually when we were
undergrads and then we went our kind of
separate ways for our PhD studies in
biology related fields. Hou was on
studying at Stanford, I was at Rice
University. He basically called me up
one day and he was like, "Hey, like, you
know, I'm thinking of starting a
company." Initially, we were looking
into the cell-free DNA, which is
essentially the DNA in blood to see, you
know, what conditions we can detect. And
we were approaching this problem from
first principles, and we were able to
determine that, you know, if we could
reduce the noise, we would be able to
detect, you know, conditions like sickle
cell disease, cystic fibrosis, you know,
thalassemias directly from a maternal
blood sample. And given that, you know,
sickle cell and beta thalassemia are the
most common genetic disorders in the
world, you know, we thought that, you
know, we would be able to, you know,
create something that would help
millions of patients. I think the
question almost becomes like, why didn't
someone else do this before? Why were
you two different to do that?
>> sequencing developed pretty recently,
right? This essentially requires this
kind of interdisciplinary approach,
where people who are analyzing the data
and seeing kind of all the
ways in which the data can be biased,
also understand the chemistry of how
that data is generated. People who
understand chemistry
tend to be not the kind of data
scientists and bioinformaticians that
analyze the data. We were able to, I
think, bridge that gap. Billion-to-One
is prenatal genetic testing for every
expecting mother. When they applied to
YC, this was all just an idea. But
within 6 months, they developed the
actual test and proven its accuracy on
test samples. Our first lab space was
very much not anything like the, you
know, operation we have today. It was
actually in a shared facility. We didn't
even have an entire kind of lab bench to
ourselves. We were sharing it with
another one of our friends who was also
doing a startup. It was a struggle even
to get very common kind of chemical
suppliers to allow us to buy things from
them because they'd be like, "Well, do
you have a bank account?" Like, "If we
send you something and we invoice you,
like, are you going to pay? The first
fundraising that we have done after the
fellowship was one of the most difficult
things that I have done. First $300,000
that, you know, I've raised was you
know, really, really difficult. It took,
you know, 6 months and it was, you know,
$10,000 at a time. So, we were very
paranoid about essentially the resources
that we are able to get. Launched in
June, only person that is using the
test, you know, 2 months later is this
one physician and who is sending like
maybe one or two tests per week. Wow, so
2 months after launch, you know, you've
been working on this thing for 2 years,
you've done incredible R&D, you've
gotten approval, you finally launched
the thing. 2 months after launch, you
still only have like basically one user.
Yes.
That's correct. That was very
nerve-wracking.
Okay, so you call this emergency
meeting. And you know, I told our uh VP
of sales, I was like, "Look, in 5
months,
you hired only one rep. Obviously, that
is not working. I need you to hire in
the next 3 weeks, five additional sales
reps. I need them to be trained over the
weekend and I need them to be in the
field on that Monday. When we talk with
patients, we can convince them. When we
talk with physicians, we can convince
them, but we are not getting in front of
them. But patients are getting in front
of, you know, physicians. So, can we
get, you know, marketing leads and then
essentially convince these patients to
convince their uh the doctors. to use
this test. It worked to the extent that
we were getting about one in five kits
back. Our current director of inside
sales, he was on the phone essentially
with like each patient for 30-45
minutes, you know, teaching the patient
about our test, you know, this is what
the physician would say, this is how it
is different. And that was, I think,
what we needed to convince, you know,
one or two good sales team members to
actually join us because they they
really only want to join a company if
there's traction. Once they cracked the
sales problem, they began scaling up and
eventually built the state-of-the-art
lab in 2022. During our visit, we got a
behind-the-scenes tour of how it all
comes together in the lab.
This is the start of the processing.
When we receive test samples, you know,
we need to log them into a laboratory
information management system and track
the sample through the 5-7 day process
that it would go through. We want to
make sure that when you are processing
thousands of samples a day, that the
identity of the sample is preserved. Are
those actual raw blood samples like
>> Yes. from patient over there? actual
blood samples straight from the
patients. And really the amazing thing
here is that this actually became the
bottleneck of all of our processes. So,
we had to incorporate AI and computer
vision to accelerate this. And then we
did a complete redesign of the entire
project incorporating computer vision
and AI, which was our project called
accessioning in 60 seconds. So, each
file takes a human 60 seconds to to
handle. Yes. Once the information is
entered into the information system,
first step is actually centrifuging
them, so spinning them really fast so
that the blood plasma and blood cells
are separated. This cell-free DNA that
we talked about is in this upper layer
of plasma. We program these liquid
handling robots, which has an optics
that can see that layer and only remove
the plasma. So, this is our reagent
manufacturing lab where we create our
own proprietary QCTs, quantitative
counting templates that we add to every
sample to measure the biases so that we
can remove them at the end. We believe
that we can expand into close to 2
million tests per year just using this
facility. That would be, you know,
around essentially every one in three
babies that would be tested with our
tests. So, I know this is a staged
interview, but the first time I heard
that this is how it was actually done,
it seemed like black magic to me cuz you
actually combine all the fluids into
like one droplet. Yes. And then you
sequence somehow 1,000 patient samples
all mixed together. Yes. And then you
use some computational magic to figure
out which one was which.
>> Yes. So, essentially, it's kind of like
you are marking each of their sequences
with a specific sequence that belongs to
that sample before you combine them. So,
when you look at the data, every time
you see that barcode, you know that that
sequence belongs to this patient. So,
here's the end of the line, right? Like
this is the last step in the sample
processing. After this, it's all
computational. Yes. After this, it is
all computational. You know, we have
laboratory directors, we have genetic
counselors. Sometimes genetics is
complicated, so we would sometimes even
spend 20 people just discussing one
sample to be able to report it well. At
the same time, you know, vast majority
of samples are in happy path. You know,
essentially, we know what the result
should be. So, those get analyzed and go
out automatically. Today, BillionToOne
is not just a prenatal genetic test. The
same core technology for detecting
free-floating DNA also works for
detecting cancer via a blood test known
as a liquid biopsy. They launched an
early version of this cancer test
commercially in 2023, proving their
ability to execute in two markets
simultaneously. One year into the
company, it is actually laid out that,
you know, we would start at prenatal
genetics, then go into late-stage
cancers, and then go into early-stage
cancers in this way. And you're on step
two that right now. Yes. Okay.
>> What's step two? Okay. And, you know, we
realized that, you know, fundamentally,
there's nothing different about, you
know, cell-free fetal DNA and cell-free
tumor DNA, and the same technology can
be applied to both of them. And that is
why I think it is it was very important
to actually select the right problem,
the right minimal viable product to work
on, because if we started, I think, on
the oncology side, it would have been
far more difficult to achieve that
initial successful commercialization
that gave us more resources to be able
to build, you know, new tests and
improve the existing tests. I'm curious
if you guys could share patient stories
um that sort of illustrate like what
what the impact of all the science means
for real people. So, one patient uh case
study that really stands out to me comes
from our cancer products. So, this was a
fairly young, in their 40s, uh
individual with metastatic colorectal
cancer.
And they had really kind of run out of
treatment options. They were about to go
into hospice, and you know, not kind of
shooting for a cure anymore at that
point. We ended up testing this person
using our NorthStar Select test. We
identified that this person was eligible
uh for a therapy called immunotherapy uh
based on identifying microsatellite
instability in the tumor DNA that was in
that patient's bloodstream.
And this was a little bit like a
last-ditch effort because they had
already done the tumor testing, and
there's no kind of indication from the
tumor test that this type of therapy
would work. Uh but because of how the
the tumor had metastasized into many
different locations, probably what
happened was the exact location where
the biopsy was done just didn't happen
to have that alteration, but the other
places in the the cancerous sites did.
Uh so, this person went on to
immunotherapy and did really remarkably
well. Uh sometimes doctors describe
the patient response as the cancer
melting away. Uh so, the patient's doing
very well, and to this day the doctor is
really impressed with our results, and
now starting to actually send us blood
tests from pretty much all of his cancer
patients. Wow. You guys are actively
hiring. Can you talk about some of the
other like unique or interesting aspects
of the Billion to One team?
>> One of the ways we actually we hire our
scientists is um we say, you know, we're
not looking to build an
interdisciplinary team here. We're
actually looking for interdisciplinary
people. We have found that having that
iterative cycle within one scientist
actually accelerates the work that they
do by
an order of magnitude. We actually uh
have very small
uh you know, research teams. It is
essentially principal investigators like
a scientist who is interdisciplinary,
who has a small team of, you know, two
or three uh research associates, and
they all directly report to David and
me, and they own end-to-end development
of an entire product. And they can do
that because again, they their iteration
cycle is so fast, and they are not
blocked by any bureaucracy because they
report to us, so we can essentially
unblock them. And we have, you know,
every week we spend a lot of our times
with those R&D scientists because it
almost creates this interesting
structure where we have many startups
within the larger company. Like each one
owns a product and makes it better and
better. I want to end by talking about
the future. So, as early as 2018, you
guys had kind of this three-step plan
for the company. It's like uh
hm, prenatal testing, late-stage cancer,
and then early-stage cancer. It actually
just occurred to me, is this similar to
the Tesla super secret plan, the
three-step plan to go from like the
Roadster to the like
Model 3? Have you guys ever thought
about that analogy? It has similarities.
Um
I think maybe the primary difference
here is that being in health care, we
needed to make every test that we built
accessible and affordable to everyone.
But from the perspective of going into
larger and larger markets, you know, it
is very much the same approach that we
have taken here.
>> You began with the least capital
intensive product, you got that live and
commercial, then you took the resources
from that and were able to launch a more
expensive, more difficult product in a
harder market. And that's where you guys
are at now. This is like you're in like
step two, which is
late-stage cancer. Can you talk about
what step three? Step three is
essentially using the same technology
for
patients who are diagnosed with stage
one two cancers, and then, you know,
they undergo what is considered, you
know, curative intent surgery. The
problem is that in about 20% of these
patients, actually there's a microscopic
residue remaining.
And they cannot be detected by scans.
With our technology, we believe that we
can detect this microscopic level of
remnant tumor DNA. There's actually a
step even four. If you can detect a
microscopic level of DNA and be able to
say that that is actually cancer, that
is the same really technical problem as
being able to detect those in healthy
patients or, you know, general
population. So, that is the kind of
eventual goal of cancer screening. If we
can, you know, screen everyone once a
year and be able to conclusively say
that, you know, this small group of
people have early stage cancer,
that would be amazing because, you know,
those tumors can often be removed
before, you know, it spreads, before it
becomes too late. This is one of these
like a holy grail scientific
achievements that the industry has been
chasing. Why has no one else been able
to do it before? Being resource limited
is sometimes very helpful, right? If you
wanted to solve early detection from the
very beginning without having this
step-by-step approach, you would have to
raise more than a billion dollars, you
know, without generating a single dollar
of revenue. And as first-time founders,
we knew that, you know, we could never
do that. I would be very proud of what
we, you know, what we achieved, even if
we just solved the biggest prenatal
problems. But the great thing about our
technology is that it does allow us to
have this, you know, step-by-step
uh approach to being able to get to a
place where we can solve a problem for,
you know, millions of cancer patients
and, you know, potentially make the
biggest dent in in cancer that, you
know, really has happened in the last
100 years. We have a saying that, you
know, pressure is a privilege. People
who are coming here because they want to
take on a challenge, you know, changing
health care is difficult. Trying to
change health care, you know, while
also, you know, growing this fast, you
know, while being profitable is even
more difficult. So, we make it very
clear to, you know, everyone that, you
know, it is probably going to be, you
know, one of the most difficult things
that you are ever going to do if you
join our company, but you are going to
be extremely proud of what you are going
to achieve here. And now that, you know,
we have gone public, these employees,
they could easily retire, but they are
not retiring, right? And I think that
shows that, you know, they are really
here because of the growth and because
of the challenge and because, you know,
they love what they do.