Title: AI Is Eating Logistics
Video ID: KTmxaMdUbHA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTmxaMdUbHA
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-11-14T15:00:47Z
Duration: PT33M41S
Views: 67038
Likes: 1155
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1086

Description:
Logistics is a multi-trillion-dollar industry that quietly powers the entire global economy — and it's shockingly manual.

Ryan Petersen, founder & CEO of Flexport, joins the Lightcone to break down how AI is finally touching the physical world: making shipping cheaper, speeding up global trade, and automating work that used to live inside emails, spreadsheets, and phone calls.

Chapters:
00:00 Intro
00:51 What is Flexport and what are they doing with AI?
03:17 When did AI tools become serious a

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Logistics are very scale-driven
industry, and so the bigger you get, the
cheaper you get. Our take is that we can
make the price of shipping anything by
ocean container shipping between 8 and
10% cheaper over the next few years, and
AI is a big part of that. So, our AI for
that saved us 2% of our ocean freight
spend while improving transit time 20%.
Usually, that's a trade-off. It's like
you're either faster or cheaper, but not
both.
>> you're at $2 billion a year revenue and
just getting started.
Welcome back to another episode of the
Light Cone. We've got a real treat
today. We have Ryan Petersen of Flexport
with us. He went through YC in 2014, and
he is easily one of the most awesome
founders I've ever met.
>> [laughter]
>> Ryan, thanks a lot for joining. Thank
you. To start, Ryan,
what is Flexport, and what are some of
the things in AI you're actually
implementing right now? So, Flexport is
a global logistics company built around
a modern tech stack. And that means we
help companies ship cargo from point A
to point B across any mode of transport,
so air, ocean, truck, and rail, and get
that cargo delivered hopefully on time
and in full at a lower cost thanks to
the tech. What we're doing with AI is
man, it's an exa- I have to make an
exhaustive we'd have to extend the
length of the podcast to pull that off,
but starts with customer user
experience. What can we do with their
data? Getting them better access. How do
we load containers in the optimal way?
How do we put that container onto the
right ship at the lowest cost while
maintaining or beating
transit time expectations. Automating
just tons of work that's done in email
or that you or phone or work that you
wouldn't even do because
the cost is too high for a human, but
actually does create some value that's
worth it with AI. So, most contracts in
logistics come in giant Excel files,
thousands of rows, and you know, dozen
tabs. You can't just feed that to OpenAI
and get an answer get a structured JSON
file back. It needs intelligence, but
writing code and then having AI write
the code. You write a parser that
ingests it, and then have AI that can
write those parsers for you learning.
It's an endless list, and we feel like
we don't even know all the things that
they can do. It's still pretty new. So,
basically, one of the most uh
human-intensive things now can be
streamlined to the point where actually
it might uh affect GDP in the world. Our
take is that we can make the price of
shipping anything by ocean container
shipping cheaper by between 8 and 10%
cheaper over the next few years, and AI
is a big Not the only part of that, but
a big part of that. As our our business
model, the way we think about it is as I
call it scale economies shared.
Which is the bigger you get, the cheaper
you get. The more automation is a form
of scale. And the bigger you get or the
cheaper you get, you lower your the
lower your cost, you give that share
that with your customer, which will make
them do even more volume with you.
There's scale benefits that come
Logistics are very scale-driven
industry. Uh and so the bigger you get,
the cheaper you get. Like the Costco
model. I like I like I love Costco even
though I don't shop there. I just love
the business. Uh You keep driving down
the price. That makes you more
attractive, more competitive, and and
just keep going, yeah. And you're at $2
billion a year revenue and just getting
started.
>> Just getting started, yes. Something I'm
curious about. So, from Opentel, we work
with all the startups, and we've seen
like AI over the last couple of years go
from like when ChatGPT launched, and
then like some startups in the batch
start playing around with it, and it's
become like progressively more serious.
Um I think you're the first person we've
had on the show who's like running a
company at scale that was founded
pre-AI. Mhm. What's like What have the
last few years been like for you from
that perspective? From like ChatGPT
launch, like at what point did it start
becoming like a thing you were paying
more attention to?
>> Like so many other people as of November
of 20 Was it 2022? It's already been a
few years since the ChatGPT launch. Been
personally obsessed ever ever since
then. It's interesting to watch it take
hold at the company, and in some cases
not take hold, and you then saying like,
"Come on, guys. We can't be this boomer
company. Like everybody needs to be
using this." We're trying to drive that
sense of paranoia from the from the top,
from me, but but many others in the
company maybe even more paranoid than me
or more enthusiastic excited than me as
well uh to say that story that we say of
like, "Well, we're the only large
logistics company founded since the web
browser." And I know there's a kid in
the next YC batch who's saying, "Hey,
we're the only freight forwarder
[laughter] founded since ChatGPT in
November 2022." Like And he's got a
point. Um so, we we have to be leading
on this. This is true of all incumbents
in an industry. They have some real
advantages when it comes to AI and
benefiting from it. And one is the scale
of the data.
Two is the domain experience to know,
"Okay, which problems should we be
solving?"
Uh and some of those problems are small
enough that you shouldn't start a whole
company around the problem. It's maybe a
feature, but not a company. Um but for
them, it's great. It's a valuable
feature that they could add. And third
is distribution. Like when we build or
any large company builds a great AI
product, the next day it can be used by
thousands of companies. Whereas a
startup doing that has to go beg people
for their data to train the model
and trust get earn their trust to have
that data from a security compliance
standpoint. And then third,
get the customer. Get, you know, so
that's the huge advantage that any
incumbent will have, and we think we we
definitely feel that we have that
advantage at our scale. Um but
the flip side where I think we also have
an advantage is that we are a silly
young company relative to our industry,
but young in terms of our tech stack.
Like we build our own tech. Therefore,
we can implement and integrate AI and
just add it wherever we want. Most of
our competitors treat AI treat
technology period as IT as a service
that they pay for. Uh many cases like
desktop app or like Windows remote
desktop is very common in our industry.
Uh but still, it's it's something they
buy, and therefore, you don't control
the code base.
If you wanted to add AI to automate
something or do something, you're like,
"It's not really It's hard."
>> Has it been a specific moment since
ChatGPT launched where you started as a
company
taking it more seriously or or cuz I My
opinion is like the first version was a
toy. Even within the YC batches, like we
sort of see some founders playing around
with things, but it wasn't clear that
they'd actually be like companies
founded on it. So, I'm just curious
what's like founder running large-scale
company
You saw that you're like, "This is
really interesting to me personally."
Like was there some moment where you're
like, "Oh, like we should probably try
and like build something or do something
internally with this?" Yeah, I think a
lot of it has come through in our
hackathons. But there could be an
interesting metric here is like what
percentage of hackathon projects first
of all used AI? Like we're building
something with large language models.
Uh and which percentage of the projects
actually you decided to fund and push
into like, "Hey, let's actually make
this thing real. It's not just a hack."
>> Is hackathon something you've done for a
while? Is that like a company
>> Yeah, we usually do two a year. Okay.
>> Uh I think now we're like kind of
religious about two every year, but um
but one to two a year. Uh where And for
us, it's
very much a free-for-all. You can build
anything you want. If you look now at
the last two hackathons we've done, it'd
be like 90%
LLM-based projects. In my I haven't
studied it, but I'm just like feeling my
feeling my gut. Whereas probably 18
months ago, there were like four or five
Interesting. We There's probably 50, 60
teams that do a hackathon project each
time. In the beginning of Flexport, I
was very much of this idea that like you
just let let the people get smart people
and get out of their way and go execute.
Uh and
>> Oh, that sounds like manager mode.
>> It was I I I I had way too much manager
mode, and I had this idea of like human
beings are going to flourish if only
they could be set free. They don't
[laughter] want to be told what to do by
the man. That's why I started a company.
I don't want to be told what to do. And
I went through my own Chesky moment of
founder mode and recognizing how you got
to be way more tops-down and directive
and tell people what to do and get
people aligned and rowing in the right
direction. And that's been my evolution
the last 2 years at Flexport. I've been
pretty way more hands-on and hardcore in
directing the business. But then, as I
see these hackathons, I'm like, "I never
would have come up with that idea
in a million years." And then I I got to
let these guys build what they want to
build and flourish. And so, I'm starting
it out come back on myself and say,
"Where's the room in our product roadmap
for bottoms-up innovation?" Uh
Certainly, you see it in these
hackathons and
trying to maybe even start making sure I
do the hackathon timing before we say we
do our kind of roadmap exercise every 6
months or so. We we should probably do
the hackathon right before that. So,
that when you see a great idea, you can
budget it instead of after budget.
>> a noteworthy change here that's
happening for you that um I mean, I
think most uh companies might throw a
hackathon, and then in most hackathons,
the 90% of the projects are just like
toys, and you never return to them
again. Like, you know, someone gets a
nice participation trophy, and that's
it.
>> Yeah. But like it sounds like the
difference right now in the age of LLMs
and age of intelligence is that these
hackathon things are actually turning
into real product lines and features for
you.
>> Yes, and and at the very least into
debates in my head of being like, "Man,
I've got to do that." But also, I lost
We're going to We're going to crush
everybody with just our regular roadmap.
Uh but I had this after the very last I
think our last Our next hackathon's in 2
weeks. Our last was 6 months ago. I I
remember thinking afterwards, I'm like,
"You know, we could just only do that
stuff, and we'll also win."
>> Huh. Yeah. Maybe win faster. Maybe. It's
highly unlikely that the person at the
top now knows best what the best
implications are applications are.
That it's It's just as likely that
someone on the front lines closer to the
problem is going to go, "Hey, look.
Watch. It can do this." You go, "Oh,
man. I never would have guessed it could
do that."
>> You kind of need engineers who are just
really into it and have been playing
around with it and just like understand
how to like build the products in the
first place to come up with the ideas,
probably.
>> Yeah. Engineers, and engineers being
really close to the business is
something we've always prided ourselves
on. Like really being in the weeds. And
one of the other things that we've done
uh is create a program for non-engineers
to learn AI skills. Uh and it's a kind
of formalized program. So, your manager
has to agree, but you get 1 day a week
for 90 days. It's a 90-day program. One
day a week where we teach you
kind of a AI boot camp vibe coding and
different ways to apply and this is a
new program. So we're only about 6
months into this. We'll see how it works
out, but people love it and you are
seeing gains, but the the promise of the
leader who created this and convinced
the managers to give up someone for 20%
of their time to go into it was I will
return them to you as 10 times more
productive than their peers.
I'm sure we haven't achieved that or it
would show up in the metrics, but that
is the you know, that's the idea. How
are you training all these folks to
level skill in AI? What are what are the
sorts of things they're learning?
Certainly it's it's cursor and a set of
related products like that that like I
think we're using something called
Streamlit, but probably there's YC
company. I don't know. Maybe she use
Replit or something, but it's similar
ideas. You can spin up uh
build your own little apps. Um
build workflow automation tools to say,
"Okay." Cuz a lot of what Flexport is,
we call it freight forwarding.
Uh I've often joked it should be called
freight email forwarding. You're like
taking docs and sending it on. So how do
you look at a person's
job and there's no one better to look at
it than the person doing the job
and saying, "Oh man, I'm doing the same
thing over and over again. What if I
instead
It's like if everybody was an engineer,
they would and I've thought about this
in the past is saying, "Hey, what if I
took one group of engineers and
and hire them as engineers as a big bait
and switch and then tell them,
'Actually, you're just moving freight.
Sorry.'"
And watch them automate their way out of
the job, right? And you're sort of
saying, "Okay, I I never really wanted
to do that to an engineer cuz I feel
like I'd
just have a revolt of
But now you're kind of like, "Well, I
could do it to a non-engineer who's
already doing that job and turn them
into a you know, a lightweight no low
code Which is cool. Yeah. It's going the
other direction where you're taking
really all these super domain experts
and now they can finally build and they
can automate themselves out of it
instead of getting the engineer to do
it.
>> Yeah. And that that program started on
our Amsterdam We have an engineering
office in Amsterdam. It started there.
They did it without me knowing about it
for the first six few months and then
now we're like, "Oh, this is great.
Everybody loves it." So we're we're
starting to bring it global to other
offices. I wonder if you could share
some examples of the AI projects that
you have rolled out that have been most
impactful over the last couple years.
Both customer facing features, but also
like any internal operational things
that you guys have automated that maybe
the customers have no idea about.
>> Yeah. Um the customer facing one
probably the most impactful. Like a lot
of what you care about from logistics
companies your data
what's going on with my supply where uh
the types of data that people are
looking at. So the way Flexport works,
you place orders to your factories
through Flexport. So I'm replenishing my
inventory. I'm buying things. I'm
placing purchase orders. So those flow
out to the factory. Factory becomes a
user. There's a nice network effect
there. Once the cargo's ready, they
place a booking.
Uh and then we execute that a booking to
move the freight. Come pick it up on
this date uh and we'll execute it
by air, ocean, truck, rail, whatever and
move it across the world for you. So
that's kind of the the loop that we're
trying to run. So you care a lot about
the data for on-time performance, skew
level performance, cost. You care a lot
about that. There's customs attributes
here that are
super important with tariffs and
everything's happening. So being able to
get that data is one of the core areas
that Flexport shines already
historically. With AI and this did start
as a hackathon project. We just built
like natural language ability so that
you don't need to know SQL. You don't
need to build dashboards. You just type
your question
and it generates those graphs, charts,
tables. Don't think it does maps yet,
but it should. And it works and that is
done one one customers love it, but two
is it's
about 25% of our account management time
is spent helping people generate
reports.
Mhm.
>> That's the
>> Got it. another huge metric for us is if
we're cheaper, we'll
more people will choose us. It's not
that we just started using AI with uh
LLMs. Um
we've had a machine learning model for
doing planning for and planning in the
sense of logistics means
let's say on a containerized basis. I've
got a container, which ship should it go
on? Therefore, you need all the
contracts, their price. You need the
sailing schedules like how long is it
going to take, which route, variability
all the around those both those things.
So our AI for that
saved us 2% of our ocean freight spend
while improving transit time 20%.
Usually that's a trade-off. It's like
you're either faster or cheaper, yeah,
but not both. Uh so huge win there.
Customers don't they care a lot about
those metrics. They don't care how we
did it. And for that one, was the unlock
parsing a bunch of unstructured like
emails and data that you get from the
shipping companies that have this, but
it's all like in like a big paragraph
where like you couldn't just like run a
simple query on it before. Sort of,
yeah. The way to think about it is um
you've got if you just put a container
on the cheapest contract, you you may
not it's an optimization. Okay, which
one's the cheapest, but also the
fastest. You know, I'm I'm trading off.
So that that's one thing that machines
are better at. Uh and then it's the
scale of that. So on a given week, we
have about 2,000 containers that get
canceled by our customers.
They place the booking and then they
say, "Oh, actually the cargo's not
ready. The factory is late." It's just
inevitable. It's going to happen. What
software does that humans could never do
is go through 10 times a day and taking
each one of those containers and saying,
"Okay, I lost this container. It's been
canceled. Is there another container
that was meant to depart one week from
now?" And I'll grab that and move it
forward. That's how you get the 20%
transit time increase. And then the
optimization piece of is just find the
cheapest contract like a solver out, you
know, algorithm to go find it.
>> can't do that because it has to happen
really quickly.
>> Cuz this happens 10 times a day for
every container in the system. Okay. You
know, it's just like you would you maybe
you could, but you wouldn't.
>> You'd have to hire like an army of
people doing it.
>> It would be crazy. If you calculate this
first principle, sounded like that first
version was using classical optimization
problems and you had certain data about
all these shipments, inputs, outputs and
scheduled.
What do you think is the delta that you
could get with AI now that you could
harness all the unstructured data? What
kind of efficiencies could you get?
>> be able to get a lot more now that
you're starting to see a tool use
because the tool itself is incredibly
powerful and I don't think an LLM will
outperform that, but the LLM can use
that tool. And it could do other things
outside of that. So you can we'll see.
We haven't started to do that yet. So
we're still actually still using that. I
mean actually email people or call them
up and Yeah, but it could you assign the
LLM the same solver problem, but it is
going to default to use this tool and
then it'll also say, "Yes, maybe this
container I'm not sure if I could move
it forward. I should ask the customer."
Would be a good idea, actually. Email
them, "Hey, is it okay if I bring you
this container early?" Like the solver
still there, but then uh basically the
agent is the user. Yes. Instead of right
now there's not really a user or there's
a there's someone who's approving the
plan and so you could make that person
upstream of the solver uh choose the
solver as one of many tools. So that'd
be interesting. We haven't done that
yet, but and then the other thing is so
just routine work. Uh
For example, you've got a lot of email
communication with your customer base.
So how do you take this You you say,
"Hey, I want to place a booking for a
container."
Translate that into a booking. Uh LLMs
are quite good at that. Or um a big use
case today is verifying warehouse
addresses and and other information and
getting appointments. I've got to
deliver to a warehouse.
Quite costly to call the warehouse and
be like, "Do I have the right address?"
You're not going to do it every time and
then you have a lot of misses where
your address data was bad and your truck
got lost, you know, it's a pain in the
ass. Um so LLMs now before we deliver,
we if we haven't delivered to the site
in the last 3 months,
there's an LLM agent does email and
voice. Interesting. Wow. So if
necessary, it'll actually call the
warehouse and be like, "Hey,
can you confirm that 2:00 p.m. tomorrow
is a okay time to deliver this?"
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Oh, very cool.
>> great because you're turning this
previous communication protocol, which
is very much uh I suppose very lossy to
work sort of like the internet like TCP
fully acknowledge and you can get
guarantees. And sometimes it's not
replacing work, although I'm very happy
to do so, but like in some cases the
work would have been too expensive, so
you just didn't do the work. To do this
phone call. And even if a human could do
it, it's like not worth it. Another good
one is just messages. So like the way we
communicate with our customers, some of
it's email, but a lot we try to drive as
much as possible through our messaging
applications inside the inside the
Flexport platform. There's a huge amount
of signal in that. Just customer
sentiment.
If if if a customer in AK with AI, we've
trained the model to detect unhappy
customers in the way that they message
us.
And then that creates an automatic
escalation to the manager of the the
front-line person saying, "Hey, this
person seems upset."
>> [laughter]
>> There's a lot of emotion in logistics,
you know, it's your stuff. Your business
is on the line. You need to get it
delivered. Infiniteless uh we we in fact
we measured at the beginning of the year
we had automated 20% of the work. It was
pretty low scale of automation. We're
going to finish this year at 50% and we
had set a goal for ourselves next year
of 80. We thought 80 was actually the
upper limit of what could be automated.
It's not scientific, but now we feel
like, "Oh, it's probably closer to 90 to
95 current and then that'll get way more
so as
LLMs keep progressing. How will that
affect like the total cost of ocean
freight? Like if all the human work gets
automated, does stuff actually get
materially cheaper?
>> Yeah. Uh it's 10% of the end cost that
the
buy the the importer exporter pays for
their freight. 10% uh if you look at the
full P&L, about 10% is the labor cost in
the freight forwarding layer of
logistics. Wow. So So when AI is like
fully rolled out, like stuff will
actually get 10% cheaper. Well, the
freight moving the stuff. The cost of
moving it, right? The stuff itself
depends on what what the ratio is, but
yeah. But like the transportation costs
of like international freight is
actually like 10% auto On containerized
ocean freight, that's our that's our
view is that we can drop the price of
everything by around 8% and maybe it
goes to 9% uh over the next few years by
doing this. That has some uh
big economic ripples in terms of
if it's becoming cheaper to ship things
across the ocean, is it going to create
just more trade? I mean, this is a trade
war, but Exactly. It's very hard to
control for that in the mirror where
where tariffs just made everything like
10 times more expensive, but at least
we're doing our part.
I mean, the white pill on AI right now
is, you know, this hope and sort of
possibility that uh AI rolled out
properly across society would increase
GDP 7% a year.
So, this would be maybe
>> 7% a year will double you in 10 years is
the the law of 72.
>> Yeah, yeah. That is the hope, right? And
I think more people should talk about
that and and everyone's so worried about
automating away the
jobs.
And I just think that
misunderstand the role of companies in
the in society. Like, the role of
companies is not to employ people.
It's to deliver goods and services. And
in fact, whoever employs the least
number of people will have the lowest
cost
and win. And that's how they benefit
society is lowering costs and making
things more available for us to buy and
sell. And then there's this idea, well,
how are people going to make money if AI
is doing all the work? And I I I think
that that very much misunderstands human
nature. That we'll we'll just want more
things. Like, there's an infinite desire
inside the the human soul can never be
satisfied.
Without God. Uh
we need more stuff. Like, we got to have
more. We got to have more. And so
>> We're trying to return to uh the garden.
We may get a return to some to I I think
that actually the internet first we
haven't quite reconciled this on like a
spiritual philosophical level the the
emergence of these technologies and
uh and AI we're not even beginning to of
what it means for us, but there's a
period in history
called the Axial Age. It's about 500
years BC.
And that's when um coins really started
to spread. What you had with if you
think about it with coins is taking
transactions between two people and make
and really uh making them very in in
personal. You no longer care who you're
doing business with. I don't need to
check the ledger.
>> Does this guy owe me money? What's my
relationship? Do I trust him? Just like,
here, take this thing. So, and it it
actually led to this breakdown in
societies because uh
we just stopped being so
knowing your neighbor. Like, you used to
only do business with your neighbors.
Now you could just do business with any
old person. The internet kind of
does that at scale. What happened in the
Axial Age you had this breakdown of
ability for of trust and you started to
get degeneracy and all kinds of like
things that start to break down in
society. And
simultaneously across the world you had
four major prophets that emerged um
Yeah, well, prophets as of sort. You had
Buddha, you had Laozi, Confucius, and
Socrates. They all lived at the exact
same moment in time right as coins were
taking hold.
>> Fascinating. As like, hey, we need to
we need to kind of like get our hands
around how how do we behave in this new
world? And so, I do think there there's
an opportunity here. Maybe it could be
you, Gary, at Y Combinator
>> [laughter]
>> to be the next the next Socrates. Yes,
uh I I'm in, but I might not be the
right person. [laughter] Right? I mean,
I particularly like this idea that like
the idea that what are humans going to
do is a little bit invalid in that you
know, that's a little bit like going
back 5 800 years and saying like, oh my
god, all of us are farmers.
And then what are we going to do when
modern agriculture comes? Yeah.
>> like we figured it out. Like, we you
know
>> the printing press. Yeah. Right? What
are what are what are the monks going to
do? They're transcribing words all day.
There's no more jobs for transcription.
Like
>> So, there will be implications for
society and morality and how people
relate to one another and obviously like
>> And we we have no idea what this is.
It's early days, but history does kind
of repeat and there's lessons there and
figure out, okay, how does this But the
human nature doesn't change much, right?
You can't satisfy humans. You're just
going to want more stuff. The more money
you have, the more classically, right?
Cliché. Like, the more you have, the
more you want.
>> [snorts]
>> That's not going to go away. So, if you
give people a lot more stuff, it's not
like, oh, I'm going to quit working.
Most people aren't like that. I'm going
to get a lot of stuff, I'll just quit
working. You find out you're miserable.
You want to keep producing, keep
contributing. One of the interesting
things that has been percolating around
the Weiss community among young founders
and like AI researchers that we've been
talking to is this idea that like there
going to be humans in the loop. The
humans in the loop may well be uh some
some might be like government mandated,
right? You know, in fintech there's a
lot around uh you cannot have an AI
algorithm like approve loans for
instance. There are like requirements
from the government in these highly
regulated industries to have humans in
the loop. Uh and then
>> In customs brokerage as well, we have to
have a human that's approving the
transaction before before we clear
customs. Yeah. And so, vibe coding's
happening. There's this idea of you
enter a prompt, it comes back with a
bunch of stuff, and then you just click
accept all changes without reading any
of it, right? Do you think this might
happen? That would this happen at
Flexport? Would this happen
uh more broadly across all businesses?
Like, what if businesses are at the core
like hyper-intelligent AI that uh has
access to all your systems of record,
knows what to do, optimizes constantly,
and then you have sort of like
government-mandated
liability sinks that are humans in the
loop. Ideally, the organization still
actually serves human needs, in which
case like the decision to use, you know,
vendor A or vendor B sometimes boils
down to who brought me to the nicest
steakhouse last. So then like the model
for companies ends up being ASI of some
sort, like some sort of AI process at
the core of each company. But then, you
know, humans attached to it as either
like decision-makers in like you know,
accepting or preventing liability and or
holding relationships with other
relationship holders at other companies.
>> Yeah, and presumably you're still
relating with
you're still here to serve humans.
You know, once we get to a world where
AI is serving AI, then fair enough, you
don't need to learn that much from the
uh
record of human history cuz there's no
more humans involved in the loop. And I
don't have a lot to
say about that. But as long as there's
humans there, there's going to humans
are going to want to relate with other
humans and have a relationship and
think we're pretty pretty pretty far
from humans
preferring to work with AI than to work
with other humans. We're seeing where AI
is doing more and more
work. Uh you know, another good example
is uh and just that you made me think of
with your bank, you know, you have to
have an approval approver is that even
our our humans in customs brokerage
across the industry, we benchmark to
make about 2% mistakes. And they file
the entry
with 2% and we built this sort of like
AI spell checker. The two-digit code for
Australia versus Austria, you could
easily get that wrong. Uh and AI will
figure out like, oh, this thing is not
made in Australia, it's made in Austria.
I guess one question for you, Ryan, is
if you were to start Flexport today, how
would the company be different? Not that
different, I hope. The things that
Flexport did really well compared to all
the other tech companies who have tried
and failed in our space both before we
came along and in parallel
is um we didn't look at ourselves as a
pure technology company. We're willing
to pick up the phone and solve problems
with humans, drive down to the port
still to this day. Like, I we've got a
new customer who's asking us to do
something really weird.
We need a crane on the truck to unload
this thing that we don't have that. It's
not typical what we do. And I just said,
take the customer and I need you to
drive there and follow the truck and
make sure this goes well.
>> [laughter]
>> So, I I would not change that at all and
I think that's that that's the mistake
that a lot of
tech uh people will in traditional
markets will fail at cuz they're like,
oh, if there's no API,
I can't do it. If my agent is unable to
do this task, I guess the task can't be
done. No tool use for cranes.
>> Yeah, and it might take you a long time
and you should not try to automate that
last that tail of things. You started
and grew Flexport like especially in
those first few years during the era
where just like more money coming into
like there's more venture capital each
year coming into startups. And like you
had like multiple fundraising rounds.
Like, in in what ways was like that
capital like an advantage? And I feel
like now it's sort of somewhat back
there in the AI world now. Like, the
rounds are heating up. There's more
money flowing in. It's just sort of like
post like the 2022 crash. Yeah, what's
your advice to the founders now who are
in these like companies that are growing
and have options to raise like huge
funding rounds. Like, how should they
think about it? Every company is super
unique, so don't listen to advice on the
podcast. Like, get get someone
[laughter] who's like paying attention,
you know, knows the details of your
business, which no one will know better
than you. Generally, capital is a
beautiful thing. Having it in your bank
account gives you a lot of advantages.
Uh all you really need to care about at
the end of the day is price per share
cuz if you issue more stock, like the
number
as long as your price per share goes up,
you you are richer.
Uh doesn't matter how many what percent
you own until it comes to control. So,
there's two things that matter. Do you
control your company legally or
otherwise? Culturally also works, but do
you really have control over your what's
going to the decisions that are getting
made? And do you have a job? And and
price per share. And that all That's all
that matters. I think I still think
that's true. That's always how I thought
about it. There's been a lot of dilution
to our investors, but the price per
share went up and everybody's made
better off. I didn't take away anybody's
shares. So, you're better off. The part
that I underappreciated and that I now
I'm going to take very very seriously is
the degree to which money just wants to
spend itself. And
you will
end up making a lot of mistakes where
and the biggest mistake is believing you
for sure every company has a lot of
problems.
And you start to default to like, oh,
we'll just use money to solve this
problem. And the way that that manifests
itself is, oh, I got this thing that we
need to do. Okay, hire someone to do it.
And you feel like you just end up very
bloated. We had too many people. You
start to really slow down. And it's just
a super bad cultural
approach to problem-solving. Like,
you're going to solve the problems, not
the new people that are going to you're
going to hire. So, I I give this advice.
Only one founder's ever listened to me,
but I tell founders who who friends of
mine who raised a large round, and sure,
go raise a big round. As long as you're
up round, like you're doing good, great,
raise a large round.
Then do a hiring freeze for 90 days.
Do the next day to tell your team
culturally like, "Nope, the money's not
going to solve our problems. We're going
to solve our problems." And keep that.
And then if sure, go hire. But it's cuz
it's super It happened to us over and
over again where you're just like head
count got out of control. All the plans
look good.
I want to fund all the
We're doing budgeting for next year and
I'm like, "It's so painful not to
Yeah. add OpEx, add engineers, whatever.
But you got to stay disciplined and the
money will easily make that stop.
>> [snorts]
>> So, I'm really psyched to hear about
this idea that AI is actually
transforming your business in pretty
fundamental ways. It's like coming
bottom up. What does Flexport look like
in 2035? One cool thing [snorts] about
Flexport is the way our vision has
evolved. I mentioned we started as a
customs broker. Now we do all
end-to-end, all the way from factory
floor
to consumer's doors. Like we have a
e-commerce business that does
fulfillment, retail store distribution,
etc. So, we want to take that globally
to where you can really ship anything
anywhere by any means, any mode, in any
quantity, and do it all via code. Like
all available via APIs or voice or it's
just like easy to execute transactions
at the lowest cost, automate away the
cost. And so that brands, companies of
all kinds
don't spend time thinking about
logistics. Logistics should be this
utility that just works. Just like you
don't spend time thinking about the
electrical grid.
You flip the light switch, you get
power.
You go back to doing your thing, which
is making something people want and
talking to users, right? That's what I
think our company should do. Our
customers should be doing that all day.
Like make great products,
make a great brand to sell those
products. And we'll take care of
everything in between in the most
automated, fishable, efficient, reliable
ways possible on a global basis. So
today and we have a long ways to go to
actually make all that true. First off,
the automation stuff I talked about
making progress, but we got to keep
going. And then the global aspect. So we
have employee We ship cargo to and from
147 countries last year.
But we only have employees in 22
countries.
And therefore, people on the ground that
can do the work.
Yes, we are automating that work. And in
fact, it's easier for us to automate our
own employees' work than it is some
third-party company
that's doing work. You know, even though
they're in our software, it's very hard
to automate. We don't know what they're
doing.
Um so [snorts] we want to be in every
country
by 2035, certainly. Uh in fact, our road
map has us covering 95% of all container
trade with our own people doing all the
work in the country
uh in 2028.
So by 2035, I think we could
realistically say, "Look, we'll be
everywhere that's that's legal." And
that is a big extension of our original
vision. And I didn't have all of that in
mind when I did YC Demo Day. My pitch
was like, "We'll do customs and then
we'll add some other stuff." But it
wasn't like,
"We will cover the Earth."
Any two points on Earth, whatever you
want to move, we'll move it. Uh and so
yeah, it's a very ambitious
goal. The good thing is I really
genuinely we're going to win on tech.
We're winning. We're going to extend our
lead there relative to our peers, our
competitors.
We're behind them on the global side.
And that's super fun. If you told
25-year-old me that like, "Oh, Ryan,
your job this year is we got to launch
Flexport in Indonesia, Australia, Japan,
Philippines, Turkey, and Poland, and
France." I'd be like, "Oh my Really? I
get to go to all those places and
talk to the locals and stuff." So, it's
a it's a pretty fun
moment in our history, but also really
challenging, but fun kind of
challenging, you know. No better kind.
>> [laughter]
>> Ryan, thank you so much for joining us,
man. It's always a pleasure. All right,
we'll see you guys next time.
>> [music]
[music]