Title: From Idea to $650M Exit: Lessons in Building AI Startups
Video ID: l0h3nAW13ao
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l0h3nAW13ao
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-10-28T14:01:27Z
Duration: PT39M25S
Views: 295241
Likes: 6012
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1172

Description:
Jake Heller is the co-founder & CEO of Casetext, the AI legal startup behind CoCounsel, which was acquired by Thomson Reuters for $650 million.

In his talk at AI Startup School on June 17th, 2025, he shared how his team did it—from picking the right idea to building AI products that actually work—and how founders can turn a cool demo into a reliable tool used by real customers.

Chapters:
00:00 — How We Built a $650M AI Company
01:00 — Picking the Right Idea in the AI Era
04:45 — Three Types of

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

What we're going to talk about today is
how my company uh built an AI app that
was so good we're able to bring it to an
exit for $650 million and how you can do
that too. All right, so really we're
talking about three big ideas today. The
first is
what ideas to pick. How do you decide
what to pursue? Second is how you
actually build it. And third, and
honestly often overlooked, is how you
take that thing that you built and
market and sell it successfully in the
market. Before we dive into this, a
little bit about me so you know who's
talking to you. I grew up a coder. Uh
I've been building stuff since as long
as I can remember. It's probably the
same as basically everybody here. Bit of
a side quest for me, but I fell in love
with law and policy and I became a
lawyer. And I had a pretty conventional
though brief legal career. uh law
school, clerkship,
you know, big law firm, etc. I think
like anybody who builds stuff and then
goes to one of these old professions
like law or accounting or finance or
whatever, the first thing you find out
is I cannot believe that they were doing
it this way. And so I immediately left
that and founded a company called Caseex
in 2013 when I think uh a lot of you
were about turning eight. And maybe as a
side note, that's about how long it
takes sometimes for these companies to
be successful. So, I know you're, you
know, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, whatever old
right now. Be ready to sign up for one
of the most amazing adventures of your
life when you start a startup, but it
takes time. At KStex, we've been focused
for, you know, the vast majority of our
experience on a deep conviction that AI
when applied to law can make a huge
difference. And by the way, it wasn't
even called AI when we started focusing
on it. It was called natural language
processing, maybe machine learning. But
one of our AI researchers who is here
today uh Javeed saw woo saw an early
application um as soon as the BERT paper
came out attention all you need etc.
this like seven years ago of how AI
technology could apply to uh making
lawyers lives better for example making
search a lot better because we were so
focused on large language models and
were researching deeply in this space we
got really early access to GPT4
like summer 2022 we were like $20
million in revenue we were doing great I
had like 100 people and we stopped
everything that we were doing and said
we're going to build something totally
new based on this new technology and
that became a product called co-consel
which was the first ever and I think
still the best AI assistant for lawyers
for reasons I'll go into the rest of
this talk we were acquired by Thompson
Reuters uh not about two years ago for
$650 million in cash by the way that
feels like a big number but I think for
a lot of folks in this room you're going
to look back at this talk and be like I
can't believe that was a big number back
then you guys are going to be able to
build things that are so much more
valuable I I really believe that and I
think that's because the what AI is
going to unlock for all of you is the
ability to build amazing stuff in this
for this world. So, okay, how do you
pick an idea?
something people want. And the reason
they had that saying is because it's
genuinely difficult to know what people
want, especially in like the old world
of binning software. You kind of like
have to build something, get it in users
hands, and try and fail a lot of
different times. And you just hope that
it's something that people actually want
to use. So that's why the saying for Y
Comier is make something people want. I
actually think it just got a lot easier
because what do people want? Well, what
do people want? For example, things
they're paying for right now. People are
currently paying people to do tasks,
right? In this case, it's a bunch of
very unhappy like customer support
people or something like that. But we
already know what people want because
they're paying people to do it. This
includes a lot of work like customer
support or insurance adjusters or
parallegals or in you know things you do
in your personal life like personal
trainers or executive assistants or
whatever. That is what people want. And
so the the problem of choosing what
people want just got a lot easier
because now you just have to look what
are people paying other people to do uh
for a lot of those problems either you
know traditional AI like LLMs can solve
many of the problems that people work on
right now and if not that then robotics
can solve a lot of things that people
are working on in the physical world and
what I think you're going to see as you
decide what you're going to build you
you first pick an area to target it
really kind of falls under three
different categories one is like
assistance
where say a professional needs help
accomplishing a task. That's what we
built at co-consel. Lawyers need a lot
of help reading a lot of documents,
doing research, reviewing contracts,
marking them up, making red lines,
sending them to opposing council. So
that's one big category is assisting
people doing their work.
The second big category is just
replacing the work altogether. People
currently hire lawyers. What if we just
became a law firm powered by AI? people
currently hire accountants and find
financial experts and physical
therapists and and and you know people
to fold your laundry whatever it may be
right you can just replace that task
using AI and finally the third category
is you can do uh things that were
previously unthinkable right like for
example at law firms they would have
hundreds of millions of documents and
they would never think in a million
years I should have people read over
every single document and categorize it
in certain ways and summarize it and
index it, etc. It just would be insane,
right? It cost them millions and
millions and millions of dollars. But
now that AI is here, you can have
thousands of instances of Gemini 2.0,
Flash, or whatever, read over every
document. The previously unthinkable is
now thinkable. These are basically the
three categories um of ideas to choose.
And what I think is incredible about
this is the amount of money to be made
with these new kind of categories each
has gone way up. It used to be that
what's called the total addressable
market, which is basically how much
money you can make from your product was
the number of like professionals, for
example, number of seats you can sell
times the dollars like $20 per month or
whatever, right? And by the way, a lot
of many billion dollar companies are
built selling seats to x number of
professionals. But today, the actual
amount of money that we already know
people and companies are willing to
spend
is the combined salaries of all the
people they're currently paying to do
the job. And that number is like a
thousandx bigger. You pay $20 a month to
solve a problem. For example, you know,
pay a typical SAS kind of subscription,
but you might pay five or 10 or even
$20,000 a month to certain professionals
to solve problems for you. So the amount
of money that you can make with your new
applications with AI has gone up by a
factor of 10, 100, or even a thousand
compared to what it used to be. I want
to take a quick moment because it might
sound like pretty dystopian like we're
talking about taking all these salaries
and these these become, you know, your
addressable market. I think it's kind of
the opposite. I think it's beautiful. I
think the f the future is beautiful for
two reasons. The first is that you're
going to unlock a future when you
replace or substantially assist certain
jobs. Like people used to Sam Alman
wrote about this in a recent essay.
People used to have a job called lamp
lighters where we didn't have like you
know electricity and lights. So people
go around with a like matchick or like
you know lighting all the lamps at night
on and then turning them off at night by
putting out the candles, right? That's
what things used to be. And we couldn't
even imagine the kind of stuff we're
doing now because uh that's what we were
stuck doing in the past. So you going to
unlock a future that we can't even
imagine today when we you know move past
the roles that we're currently doing
right now. It'll feel antiquated 10 or
15 or 100 years from now to do the kind
of things we're doing today because
you're going to help us move past that.
But as importantly, what I think some
people don't think about with this
stuff, which I think is very true, is
you're going to democratize access to
things that were used to be really,
really hard or very expensive. In the
field we worked in in law, over 85%
of people who are low income don't get
access to legal services. It takes way
too long and it's way too expensive
working with human lawyers, right? But
if you could help make lawyers 100x
faster and 10x cheaper or you know
frankly just provide those services
yourself as a new law firm powered by AI
then all of a sudden saying where where
lawyers have to turn away clients
because they did not have enough money
you can now say yes and that applies
everywhere everybody should get the
world's best financial assistant
everyone in the world should get the
best executive or personal assistant
everyone in the world you know can
already have the best coding assistant
in tools like curs cursor and wind surf
etc right I do think that despite the
fact that I'm telling you how to pick an
idea is you should potentially replace
jobs, I think you're going to do
something really amazing for the vast
majority of consumers and enterprises uh
by unlocking a better future and by
democratizing access to things that used
to be only for the value very wealthy.
Okay, so that's that's how to pick an
idea, pick a job, replace, assist or do
the unthinkable um those previously
unthinkable and build a better future.
But how do you actually build this
stuff? I'm going to give you a quick
outline of how we built it. What's kind
of nuts to me is everything I'm going to
say right now may sound very simple and
common sensical and maybe even obvious,
but the craziest is nobody's doing
it. Like, nobody's picking ideas the way
that I recommended in terms of picking
job categories. There's very very few
companies out there doing that. And even
fewer companies are doing what I hope
will look like pretty obvious and simple
things to building um reliable AI. I put
it reliable and underscore for what it's
worth because that's going to be the key
for for many circumstances in terms of
getting from a cool demo as Andrew was
saying earlier today something that
actually works in practice. Here's like
four quick points about how to actually
build this thing.
The first is think about like making an
AI assistant or an AI replacement for
say a profession.
Ask yourself like what do people
actually do? What does a professional in
this field actually do? What does a
personal trainer or fitness coach do if
that's the app you're deciding to build?
What does a financial assistant do or
financial analyst do? And be like super
specific.
I'm going to say this a few times, but
it is really helpful to actually know
this answer, not like make it up. It was
helpful for us that that I was a lawyer,
my co-founders were lawyers, 30 to 40%
of my company, even the coders were
lawyers because we actually lived it.
That may not be the case for you. Just
go be like an undercover agent
somewhere. Really learn what happens at
these companies, right? What do these
people do? Other way to do it, by the
way, is you might be the tech talent and
you might find yourself a co-founder
who's a has some deep expertise in a
field. But whatever way you get there,
you know, find out what what are the
specific things that people do that you
can assist or replace. And then ask
yourself this question. How would the
best person in that field do this if
they had like unlimited time and
unlimited resources like a thousand AIs
that can all work in, you know,
simultaneously to accomplish this task,
right? How would the best person do this
and work backwards from there, right?
What are the actual steps that somebody
might take to accomplish a task? For
just give you an example from our legal
field, we did a version of deep research
two and a half years ago. uh as soon as
we got access to TPD4, it was like the
first thing that we did and we asked
like what was the what was the best
lawyer going to do if given this
research question. It wasn't like just
generally research like what does that
even mean? They broke it down to steps.
Okay, first you know they get a request
for this research project and they say
okay well I need to understand what this
really means. They might ask clarifying
questions quite like deep research today
if you've used it. And then they might
make a research plan. They they might
execute dozens of searches might that
might bring back hundreds of different
results. They'll read every single one
of them very carefully. Kick out the
stuff that's not relevant because search
results are sometimes have irrelevant
stuff. Bring in the stuff that is
relevant. Make notes about what they're
seeing, right? Why is this relevant? Why
is this not relevant? Where does this
fit into my answer? And then based on
all of that, put together, put it all
together in an essay. and then maybe
even have a step at the end where you
check the essay to make sure it's
accurate and reli you know actually
refers to the right resources um etc etc
etc. These are the kind of steps that a
real professional might do when doing
research. So write them down. Now you
turn to code. Most of these steps for
the kinds of things you'll be doing end
up being prompts. One or many prompts,
right? One prompt might be read the
legal opinion and decide on a scale of
zero to seven, how relevant is it to the
question that's being asked. One prompt
might be given all these notes I've
taken in all the cases I've read so far,
write the essay. One prompt might be
like, here's a here's a footnote in the
essay, here's the original resource. Is
this thing, you know, accurately cited
or not? The reason why that many of them
are prompts is because they're the kinds
of things that would once require human
level intelligence, but now you're
injecting it into like a software
application. So now you need to, you
know, do do the work of turning it into
a great prompt. I'll talk about in one
second to actually do that human level
intelligence. By the way, if you can get
away with it not being a prompt, if it's
like deterministic or it's like a math
calculation or something like that,
that's better. prompts are slow and
expensive. Tokens are still expensive.
So when you're breaking down these
steps, some of these things might just
be good old software engineering, right?
Do that when you can. And then here you
make a decision when you find out how
the best person would approach this. If
it's a pretty deterministic like every
single time they always do this task,
they always follow the same five steps.
Simple. Make it a workflow, right? It's
actually the easiest outcome for you.
And to be honest, a lot of the stuff
that we built while building code
council was exactly like this. Every
time you do this task, you're basically
going to take the same six or seven
steps. And you don't need to have
frankly like lang chain or
whatever. Just Python code. This
function then the output of this
function goes in this function output of
this function to this function. Boom.
You're done. Right? Simple. Sometimes
it's not so simple. Sometimes how expert
would approach the problem really
depends on the circumstances. Maybe they
need to make a very different kind of
research plan, pull from different
resources, run different kinds of
searches, read different kinds of
documents, whatever it may be that
you're doing, right? That's how you get
to something that's a little bit more
agentic. That's harder to make sure it's
good. But maybe what you have to do,
right? Underscore this again in doing
all of this, having some form of domain
expertise, somebody who knows what
they're talking about here, which by the
way, you can also acquire just by
talking to a lot of people. There lots
of different ways to get here, but don't
do it. Don't don't fly blind. Don't
assume this is the way that all
government employees in this field do X
really know. Okay. So that's the basic
way you can build these AI capabilities
that start to round out and that's it
right simple. The hard part frankly
isn't building it. The hard part is
getting it right. Like how do you know
the research was done well? How you know
it read the document right? How do you
know it edited you know it did the
insurance adjustment correctly? How do
you know it made a correct prediction
about whether to buy or sell a sock or
whatever it is that you're doing? This
is where evaluations play a very very
very large part. And this is the thing
that I see most people not doing because
they build like demo level stuff that
frankly is like 60 to 70% accurate. And
if we're being honest, you can probably
raise a pretty good round of capital by
showing your cool demo to uh VC
partners. And you can even possibly sign
on your first few customers with the
cool demo as a pilot program, right?
But then it doesn't work in practice.
And so all that excitement and VC
capital raised and pilot program
excitement, etc. uh falls apart if you
can't make something that actually works
in practice. And making something that
works in practice is is really hard
because uh LLMs like people, you know,
you don't have your coffee that morning,
uh you wake up on the wrong side of the
bed, it might just output the wrong
stuff for prompts. I'm sure you've all
seen this before. Even if you just use
chat tpt, you sometimes probably been
blown away with its brilliance at times
and other times shocked by how
incredibly wrong it was about code or
you know some informationational lookup
or just hallucinating when George
Washington's birthday was or whatever it
is right so so how do you deal with that
I'll tell you how we dealt with it um
this is not the whole answer but a big
part is evaluations
next batch is now taking applications
got a startup in you apply at y
combinator.com/apply
by it's never too early [music] and
filling out the app will level up your
idea. Okay, back to the video.
>> This all begins again from domain
expertise which is like what does good
look like? What does it mean to do this
task super super well? Um if you're
doing research, what is the you know for
for X given question, what is the right
answer? What must the what must the
right answer include for X document? And
you're asking a question that's a
document. What must it pull out of that
document. What pages should I find the
information? What does good look like?
This is true of the overall task like
complete this research for me, but also
each microtask necessary to complete the
overall task like which which search
queries are good search queries versus
bad search queries. Here again, not
sounding a broken record, but it's good
to know what like actually prof actual
professionals would say about this,
right? So, what does good look like? And
then those become your evals. My
favorite thing to do when I'm writing
evals for things that are like, you
know, when when possible is to turn into
like a very objectively gradable answer.
For example, uh have the AI just output
true or false or a number between zero
and seven or whatever because then it's
really easy to evalu.
That's how relevant it is. It's not a
seven, not a five, it's a six. And if
you have that then you can set up an
eval framework I like prompt fu I don't
know if you guys use that it's like open
source runs on on your command line
there are many frameworks out there that
you can use to you know put together the
these evaluations doesn't really matter
at the end of the day it's like for this
input and this prompt the answer should
be six make like a dozen try to match
what your customers are actually going
to throw at your program right make a
dozen and then try to get it perfect on
a dozen, then get to 50, then get to
100, and keep on tweaking the prompt
until um it actually passes all the
tests you keep on throwing at it. If
you're doing really good about this,
have a hold out set and don't, you know,
look at those while you're while you're
writing your prompts. Make sure it also
works on those. You're not just just
fine-tuning the prompt just for your
evals, right? What you'll find without
any I use the word fine tuning without
any like technical fine-tuning you can
go so far with just prompting if you're
being really careful about this you will
find that the AI gets things wrong
predictably you're ambiguous as part of
your prompts you're not giving it clear
instructions about doing one thing or
maybe it just constantly fails in a
certain direction you have to give it
direct give it you know prompting
instructions to pull it back from making
this kind of error you give it examples
right to to guide it away from certain
classes of error errors, but it's not
like going to be a surprise why or how
AI fails. Once you start prompting,
you'll start to see patterns that you
can prompt around to give instructions
around. And what I like to say is like
the biggest qualification for success
here is whether you or whoever is
working on the prompts of your company
is willing to spend two weeks
sleeplessly working on a single prompt
to try to pass these emails. If you're
willing to do that, you're in a really
good place, right? It just it just takes
such a grind because the thing is you're
going to do these emails and at first
you're going to pass like 60% of the
time. And at this point most people just
 give up. They're like, "AI just
can't do this task, right? They're like,
I just can't. I'm not going to do it."
And then you'll spend a night prompting
and you're going to be at 61%. You're
like, "Oh my god." The next group of
people will give up at this point. What
I'm here to tell you is that if you
spend like solid two weeks prompting and
adding more evals and prompting, adding
more evals and tweaking your prompt and
tweaking your prompt, tweaking your
prompt, you're going to get to something
that passes like 97% of the time. And
the 3% is kind of explainable. It's like
a human would it's like a judgment call
almost. Humans make similar kind of
judgment calls. Once you're there, you
can feel pretty good about how this
might interact in in in uh production.
What I recommend is like pre-production,
maybe in like beta, get to a 100, you
know, tests per prompt and 100 tests for
the overall task. If you're passing like
99 out of 100, again, you should feel
pretty good about where you are, right?
So, that's a just rough guide. If you
can beat a thousand, that's 10 times
better. Do that. But it's hard. It's
actually really hard to come up with
great evals. So, I'd recommend just at
least 100, go to beta and put it in
customers hands and set the expectation.
By the way, this is not yet perfect,
that's why you're in a beta.
And then you listen and learn. Every
time a customer complains, either you
have their data because that's how your
app is set up, or you ask them like,
"Hey, can you share that document and
that question you asked to see why it
failed?" That's a new test. We've added
much more eval at this point from real
things that happened to real customers
than the ones we came up with in the
lab. And that's going to your customers
are going to do the dumbest with
your app. Okay? and they're going to do
such dumb things that you'd not predict.
But that's what customers really do. If
you've ever seen like a real person's
Google queries, they're barely legible,
you know? And I'm assuming the same
thing is true of chatbt. They see a
bunch of stuff. Like your prompts
probably look pretty smart. Most people
are like burrito me how ouch or
whatever. Like what do you do with that?
Right? But you have to try to bring back
a great result and determine what
they're actually trying to say with
these ridiculous prompts. So do it like
those become your real tests and just
keep iterating. This is not a static
thing. New models will come out. Try the
new models. Prompt fu and other
frameworks make this really easy. Add a
new model. It'll compute how well it
does against your prompt so far. Keep
tweaking your prompts. Um sometimes the
addition or subtraction of a single word
might move you up a single percent, but
that's a very big deal if you're working
in a field like finance, medicine, law
where single percentage increases in
accuracy really matter to the the
customers you're serving. Right? Keep
iterating. Never stop. There should be a
new GitHub pull request like every other
day or every day on your prompts. And
I'm telling you, if you just do those
two last slides,
you know, how do the professionals
really do it? Break it down to steps.
Each step basically becomes a prompt or
piece of code. And then you test each
step. Test the whole workflow all
together. If you just do these two
things, you'll be like 90% of your way
there to building a better AI app than
what most of the crap that's out there,
right? Because most people never eval.
and they never take the time to figure
out how professionals really do the job.
And so they make these kind of flashy
demos on Twitter. They maybe even raise
capital and they may even be some of
your like your heroes for a minute, but
be careful who chooses your heroes. The
real people are behind the scenes
quietly building, quietly making their
stuff better every single day. If you
just do these two slides, you're going
to be 90% of the way there and and
better than most of the things that are
out there. That's the craziest part.
Okay, now the hardest part, honestly.
the part that frankly we we are still
trying to figure out postexit you know
at a multi-billion dollar company uh
it's still going to be really really
really hard and I'm going to give some
tips about marketing and selling AI apps
in this new kind of world where you're
maybe replacing or assisting a job
things that we've learned along the way
but the first thing I'll say
this is a little bit counter to what I
think is out there in a lot of the VC
kind of a lot of people like say like
the most important thing is sales and
marketing a lot of people really really
think that when you guys series A's and
series B's, you'll have people on your
board who say product doesn't really
matter that much if you're really good
at marketing and selling. And they've
seen some examples of this working out
like really well. I think it's
 We for 10 years we had an okay
product at first. We went through
different marketing and sales leaders,
some of them super, you know,
wellqualified, etc., and they did okay.
When we had an awesome product, all of a
sudden people were referring us by word
of mouth.
news was coming to us because we're
doing something genuinely new and
interesting, right? And that and word of
mouth and news is free marketing. Um
people coming to you like we had sales
people because we had sales people from
our older product that wasn't as good as
the new one that we came out with with
you know based on LLMs and I will tell
you those sales people became like order
takers. So the most important thing you
could do for marketing and sales is to
build a amazing product and then
making sure the world knows about it
somehow. obviously can't just like build
it and not show anybody. Tree falling in
the woods, nobody hears it. It's not
going to do anything. But I do think
that the quality of product matters so
much more than your series A and B uh
investors will say. So when you guys
have those lame VCs on your board, you
can think back to this talk and push
back. All right. Um but it's still
important. It's still important to
market and sell. I have just three
pieces of advice here. The first thing
is uh you might not be selling
traditional software anymore. Think
about how you're going to package and
sell it. The companies I'm most excited
about right now are taking real
services, like for example, reviewing
contracts for a company and they're just
doing it. They're like doing the full
service. Maybe there's a human in the
loop. And this would usually cost
somebody $1,000 per contract to review
if they went with a traditional law
firm. They're charging $500 per
contract. Again, for context, a lot of
the tools you guys use right now
probably 20 bucks a month. $20 per per
month versus $500 per contract. We're
talking about extreme step-ups in price.
Price it according to the value you're
selling it. Don't shortcom yourself.
It's maybe a little in conflict with
what I just said, but also listen to
your customers for how they want to pay.
Just ask them how would you rather pay
for this. I'll tell you what we found
out. We were thinking about a per usage
pricing like this review viewing
contract company and that that may work
in some cases where they prefer to pay
that way. That might work. But when we
asked our customers, they said, "Listen,
I'd rather pay more, but make it like
consistent throughout the year, then
potentially pay less and pay per use."
So, our customers wanted to pay $6,000
per seat. They wanted per seat, and they
want to pay $6,000 per se, 500 bucks a
month. Fine. It's a situation where our
customers wanted wanted predictable
budgeting. Give it to them, right?
Listen to your customers.
The third thing to really think about
when you're marketing and selling is all
this AI stuff is new and scary. These
big companies even, they want to dip
their toes in the water. They want to
try new things. Their CEO is like
sitting on a board of people at a
Fortune 500 company. The whole board is
like, "What are you doing about AI?" And
so their CEO is going to this company of
like 20,000 people. What are we doing
about AI? And they're like, "I don't
know. I'm trying like Greg's product."
Okay. They want to they want to try your
product. But there's also this trust gap
because they used to do this thing by
asking people and they can fire people,
they can train people, they can coach
people like people are not perfect, but
they're used to them. They are not
they're not used to using your product
yet. They have like no idea what to
expect. So, how do you build trust? Some
really smart companies are doing like
head-to-head comparisons. Keep your law
firm and then use our thing side by side
and then compare. How fast are we? How
good were we? How different were the
results? keep your accountant use our AI
accountancy and then compare like how
different how offer we in our accounting
or tax accounting or whatever it is
offer that that's a great way to build
trust compare it against people um do
studies do pilots there are so many ways
that you can do this but think think in
your head how do I build trust with my
customer and finally the sale does not
end when they've written the check and
definitely not when they started a pilot
what I'm seeing right now is like an
angel investor in this kind of post-exit
world for for me is there are a lot of
companies like our ARR is $10 million
and you dig under the surface and it's
like oh yeah we have a pilot for like
six months and they pay us a lot of
money for that pilot. Uh a lot of those
pilots are not converting to real
revenue and there's going to be a mass
extinction event uh as a lot of pilot
revenue. It's like instead of ARR is
like PR like pilot recurring revenue or
something that are not even recurring
just pilot revenue I guess like is is
not going to convert into real money and
that's a real danger I'd say for
startups right now even ones that are
reporting super high numbers in terms of
revenue big part of your job as a
founder and a part of a job of the
people you'll be hiring is making sure
that everybody uses the product really
understands it train roll it out
consciously and this is different for
every different industry for you know
onboard board them really thoughtfully.
Maybe that's in the app walking them
through steps so they try different
things. Maybe that's actually a person
sitting next to them. I don't know if
you caught this, but a very small kind
of throwaway comment that Satcha said
earlier today is that one of the most
like growing roles at startups is these
four deployed engineers, which I think
is a really fancy term for just like
boots on the ground people to sit next
to your customer and make sure the
product's actually working for them,
right? Whatever it takes. One thing I
said a lot in my company, I still feel
this is very true, is that your product
isn't just the pixels on the screen.
It's not just what happens when you
click this button. It's the human
interactions with your support, customer
success, with the founder, um it's
training, it's, you know, everything
around it. If you don't get that right,
then you might have the best pixels on
the screen, but you'll be beat by a
company that that invests more in their
customers and making sure that their
products are actually well used. That's
all you need to do to build a
awesome AI app and beat our $650 million
figure handily. All right, so open up
for questions. [applause]
>> Hello. Thank you so much for your uh
talk. I wanted to ask about the process
of choosing uh what kind of industry to
go into to try to create more automation
um in that way. So like if there are
already competitors in that space, would
you uh suggest looking at another
industry or would you suggest trying to
dive deeper into a niche of that
industry or like how what would you
advise in that situation?
>> So so I don't think you should care
about competitors at all. First of all,
for some of these spaces, the market is
so big because we're talking about like
how much how many trillions of dollars
are being currently spent on like
marketing professionals or support
professionals or whatever. There's not
going to be a single company that's
going to win this entire market for for
the vast majority of them. And frankly,
a lot of the times you're going to be at
first scared of your competitors and
then after you start building it, you're
going to be dumbfounded about how bad
they are and you're going to outbuild
them out. You run circles around them.
It's not about the competitors. But what
I will say is like kind of diving deeper
into like how to pick a market. The
things I'd look at is um what are the
kinds of roles that people are currently
outsourcing say to another country,
right? If it's something that they're
willing to do that for, then that's
probably a pretty good target for what
AI could take over. Uh if it's a role
where they feel like it's part of their
identity to do it in house, you know,
for example, I don't think you're going
to outsource for Pixar creating the
story of a Pixar movie, right? that is
that is their that is they they feel
whether they're right or wrong. Maybe AI
in two years will just like do better
Pixar than Pixar. But the people at
Pixar are going to feel very strongly
about the storytelling element. So, you
know, don't try to outsource that part.
Try to try to find the parts that are
already outsourced. For example, find
big markets, find where where there's a
pain point across many different
companies. Find um find things you know
about or can get access to information
about. Um these are the kinds of things
I'd be looking at uh while trying to
pick a market. But honestly, like
there's so many huge markets. You could
literally just print out like all the
knowledge work stuff if you wanted to
keep it digital. Throw a dart at
everything you point out. Whatever the
dart lands, just choose that market and
start running at it and I think you're
going to probably hit a trillion dollar
market. So, um, competitors or not,
don't care.
>> Thank you.
>> Perfect. Thanks a lot. So, um, Michael
from Switzerland, uh, I have a quick
question because you're a successful
founder and, uh, many of us are going to
found companies here. I wanted to know
how uh has your focus changed across the
different stages of companies from say
the preede what did you focus on versus
you know the C stages to the series A
stages and finally to the exit end which
part did you enjoy the most?
>> Uh it's a great question Michael so I'll
answer what I should have done and also
what I did do. All right
>> perfect thank you. What I should have
done is at the seed stage focus on
making a great product that gets product
market fit and then at the series A
stage focus on making a great product
that gets product market fit and then at
series B focus on making a great product
makes great product market fit and then
series C great product makes you know
you can see probably the pattern here.
What I ended up doing is I ended up
focusing on all kinds of other things
that didn't matter nearly as much as
those things. And I think if you start
from like you know because what is a
company outside of its product like it's
literally the service you're providing
to your customers is through the product
and if you focus almost entirely around
that and become obsessive around that in
my opinion um then a lot of other things
will follow for example what people do
we need to build a product that gets
product market fit now you have like HR
and recruiting etc to fill in for that
that answer how are people going to find
out about this amazing product that's
marketing and sales um what culture do
we need at the business to create a
product that people love and really use.
Now you have, you know, other parts of
HR and setting the culture, which is a
very important part of your job as CEO.
So you end up as CEO focusing on all
these different aspects by necessity,
but all to that one end. And what ends
up happening for a lot of founders
because they read like medium posts and
blog posts and they talk to their series
A and series B investors is they end up
focusing on HR or finance or fundraising
or whatever not as means to the end of
building great creating a big great
product that gets product market fit but
instead as an end to themselves like oh
we need to have a greatly great culture
in the abstract or we need to like now
we need to hire marketing and sales. I
did this. I fell into this trap. Big
mistake you know. Um I would I would
instead and this is I I'm very like as
you can tell I'm one founder is very
biased towards the product etc side but
I think I feel very strongly.
>> Hi Jake. So when I was 14 I sold my
startup to deote um and like you I'm
kind of looking for the next thing to do
like in the exit acquisition stage. If
you were here um at Y cominator startup
school what would you be doing tonight?
You know bar case text whatever you're
doing what would you be doing here
exactly tonight now that you're exited.
>> It's kind of amazing. I exit at 40 and
you exit at 14.
>> Yeah. So, uh, you're already well ahead.
It's awesome. Uh, actually, I
feel like in some ways for us in the
early days, focusing on legal made sense
for us because I knew legal, but also
was kind of a mistake because at the
time the legal software industry, Gree
LLMs is actually pretty small because it
was like a fraction like you know
lawyers make a trillion dollars a year
sounds pretty good, but how much of that
are they really spending on software?
And the answer is like a very small
amount. So no matter how well we did as
a company, we just weren't going to make
something that really changed that many
lives um that really made that much
money ultimately from a business
perspective. Um and we were only making
incremental changes to the workflow and
outputs of the people we were serving
pre-LM and postludden
helped many more people and made them a
lot more effective and changed many more
lives. And I will tell you having
existed in both spheres of making small
impacts on a small number of people um
and making only small differences their
lives and contrasted with you know
making a huge impact on many more
lawyers in our our case making them way
more effective and efficient replacing
some of the work they were doing with
LLM. Um the latter felt a lot better and
I'm kind of addicted to that now. But
I'd be focusing to long story short, I'd
be focusing on the biggest problem you
could possibly think of that is possibly
solvable with the technology and skill
set that you have. You know, like what
do people want? People want what do what
do businesses want? People want to be
like skinnier and not like lose their
hair. They don't want to do their
laundry. They, you know, want to have uh
everybody wants to have a cleaner show
up to their house for eight hours a day
and clean their whole house and make it
spotless, but you just can't afford to
do that. But could you make a robot that
does that for you? Right? Is that a kind
of pro product that can s serve
everybody in the world? In fact, is that
the kind of product that like the
dishwasher in the 50s could unlock a lot
of human potential because now people
who are staying at home to try to take
care of the kids are not having to clean
up the house anymore, right? Because
they can buy a $1,000 a year robot or
whatever. There is so much you can
unlock with like just thinking what is
the biggest problem that most people
face in businesses, you know, they want
to market their products, want to sell
their products, they want to make sure
that people are doing great work. They
want to replace certain parts of their
work with like more consistent, more
available. Like that's where I'd be
focusing my attention is just use a huge
problem that a lot of people have that
you feel like you can solve and just go
after it. Run as hard as you can.
>> Great. Thank you.
>> I think I have time for one more.
>> Hey, I'm Sabo. Then I was wondering if
you're making AI to be an assistant or
replacement for a human, you could price
that service based off how much time it
saves a human or how much you would
charge the human for as a salary. But if
you're making something that AI is doing
that humans could not possibly do, like
looking through hundreds of thousands of
like law documents per se, how do you
price such a service? And I I want to be
like really nuanced with what I said
earlier. I think at first you can start
charging what the humans charging and
then you'll have competitors, they'll
come in, they'll charge a little bit
less and then other competitors will
come in, they'll charge a little bit
less and it's kind of beautiful. how
capitalism works and it'll make the
service cheaper and cheaper and cheaper
and cheaper and at a certain point you
know if unless you're in a very
protected kind of space you will end up
charging a lot less than the people were
which I think is probably a good thing
at the end of the day for society right
bad for your business good for society
uh because now you can have the services
of a lawyer but for like 10 cents on the
dollar one cents on the dollar for that
new category of like you know I I would
I would start from what's the value
what's the value that you're providing
to the business start there if they're
going to save $100 million doing this or
would have paid $5 million to do this.
Okay, take 10% of that, 20% of that, you
know, have a conversation with your
customer. How much is you willing to pay
to solve this problem for you is
probably the best place to start. I
actually have time for one more question
rapid fire. It's a super fast one.
>> Hi, Jake. Uh, congrats on your exit. Um,
I know you probably get this question a
lot, but when you're building things
with prompts that are based off of
models that may not be proprietary, how
do you build defensibility and not end
up as a GPT wrapper? Basically,
>> my fastest answer. Just build it. And as
soon as you build it, you'll see how
 hard it was to build it. How
many little pieces you have to build,
how many data integrations, how many
checks, how fine-tuned the prompts need
to be, how you have to pick your models
super well. And when you do that, you're
going to find that you built something
that nobody else can build because you
spend like two years just doing nothing
but that. So, I'm not scared. Don't be
scared. All right. Thank you, everybody.
[applause]