Title: Michelle Zatlyn and Matthew Prince at Startup School SV 2014
Video ID: l58rp7JoVYQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l58rp7JoVYQ
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-10-14T16:12:17Z
Duration: PT28M6S
Views: 10377
Likes: 97
Tags: SUS2014, Startup School SV 2014, Y Combinator, YC, Michelle Zatlyn, Matthew Prince, Startup School
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 763

Description:
Michelle Zatlyn and Matthew Prince at Startup School Silicon Valley 2014

View the annotated transcript, and add annotations of your own, on Genius: http://tech.genius.com/Michelle-zatlyn-michelle-zatlyn-and-matthew-prince-at-startup-school-sv-2014-annotated

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Well, did you think we'd be here? This
is uh No. Uh, so five years ago, Matthew
and I were sitting in your seats. We
started Cloudflare 5 years ago. And, um,
I thought I'd just tell you a little bit
of what's happened those five years and
then we can get into some of the things
we've learned along the way so you guys
can build really big successful
companies, too. Um, so today, so what is
Cloudflare doing? We're building a
better internet. Um, we have two million
customers who have signed up for our
service all around the world, including
Y Combinator, including Y Combinator.
And why people sign up is that we make
their web properties load fast. We
protect them from online cyber attacks,
um, including DOS attacks. We just make
sure we load balance, make it available
available. We just make the internet run
better. We're Cisco as a service. Cisco
as a service. Uh, it's only, you know,
$250 billion market cap. There you go.
Uh, and so over these five years, today
we have two million customers. We have
about 120 employees in San Francisco and
London, two offices, and every day about
3,000 new people sign up for our
service. It's been definitely a rocket
ship. If you look at our growth numbers,
it is the perfect up and to the right on
all metrics. Just grow, grow, grow,
grow, grow, growth, growth, growth,
growth. And yet last night I was at your
house having dinner freaking out about
what in the world were we going to talk
to these people about and Andrew
backstage is is saying is it basically
just going to be the here's why you
should sign up for Cloudflare show which
we definitely don't want to do. So uh
definitely not what uh I don't know what
what what what do you want to talk
about?
Well, I had no idea. Truth be told,
Matthew's very nervous. He's like, "How
are we going to make this without
obscene and lame?" And I was like, "No,
no, I feel like we actually I think
seeing co-founders together in dynamics,
you many of you probably have
co-founders." And I feel like there's a
lot of stories online of where things
don't necessarily work out where they
end up no longer talking or getting
pushed out. And I think seeing a model
where 5 years in, we still talk to one
another. We're at a distinct
disadvantage because neither of us is
very funny and neither of us has been
fired. So, you know, Andrew definitely
has he
was
okay. Uh, so when we started um, lots of
people come to us, we talked to on Furs
all the time. They're like, "How did you
do it?" Like, "How did you get to where
you are today?" And what I always say is
there's no silver bullet. there's really
no silver bullet and you know you've
heard lots of successful and incredible
lineup of speakers today tell their
version of what you need to do to be
successful. Um and um you know Matthew
has this analogy about sharks and
mosquitoes and I think that's a really
good place to start. So you know I think
that um so there are three of us that
started Cloudflare and um Michelle's the
person that makes the trains run on
time. She she's essentially our COO,
although we'll talk about why actually
that's not we don't have titles really.
Um Lee Holloway, we don't leave the let
him leave the office. He's currently
chained to his desk writing code uh
right now. Um and so he's the one
actually building the stuff and uh my
role is basically to assemble the IKEA
furniture and tell the story of what
we're doing. Um which is actually
strangely a really important role. Um,
but you need those three things uh in
order to do it. And so, you know, I
think a lot of times and early on, you
know, we freaked out about how are we
going to raise money and how are we
going to, you know, how are we going to
get media and how are we going to get
press and what, you know, I I really
have always valued uh in Michelle's role
has been that what Michelle worries
about more than anything is, you know,
how are we going to how are we going to
hire people? How are we going to make
sure people get along when they're in
the office? How are we going to make
sure we're planning making sure things
get done? And and again, as Michelle
referenced, it's a little bit like
worrying about sharks versus mosquitoes.
I tend to worry about the sharks uh that
are out there, but it turns out that if
you look at it around the world, uh
sharks only kill about six people a year
or 10 10 people a year. Um mosquitoes
kill hundreds of thousands, millions of
people a year. So 150,000. There you go.
see she
uh and uh and so sweating those little
details ends up being a significantly
bigger deal in terms of being
successful. We we early on I remember
when we first interviewed our first PR
firm that we hired and we were like we
need to be on stage at every event
talking about how we're going to change
the internet and we're building a better
internet and everyone just said whoa
whoa whoa whoa whoa slow down and and
again Michelle to her credit was always
focused on how do we hire great people?
How do we listen to our customers? How
do we solve those little problems that
aren't aren't particularly sexy that
don't get written up in in the news but
that are absolutely critical? And so,
you know, I think that um I I think that
that's part of why we've made a made a
pretty good team. Mhm. Definitely. And
so, what does that mean early on? So,
again, 5 years ago, we started we
literally started 5 years ago. And for
the first year, we just built built the
product behind the scenes and then
opened up a private beta. Um, and so
what does that mean? That means the
first version of our product that we
released, we were I was literally
embarrassed about. I remember cringing
when I said, "Oh god, asking someone to
sign up for it because it wasn't ready
yet." And I knew we had all this long
list of features, but eventually you
have to ship product. And so we invited,
you know, 10 people sign up, 10 friends,
all 10 signed up, and we took all 10
websites offline. So that's the exact
opposite of our value proposition of
making things better.
And then we fixed those problems and had
them sign up again. And then we took all
10 of them offline again. So, but then
we fixed those problems and the next 10
maybe eight went offline and we kept
getting better and better and better and
better. It's amazing that they tolerated
us. It was uh and and actually it's it's
something like like 90% of those initial
customers are still users. The 10% that
dropped out just went out of business.
So, it's you know it's pretty pretty
remarkable.
And that's true. And the way we were
able to get these initial customers
because often people say how do you get
your first customers and it's really
hard. When we got to 100 customers, we
took the whole company to Vegas. There
were six of us, so it wasn't that many
people, but it was like a big
celebration. And so for months, we tried
to get to 100 customers. It was really,
really hard. My my favorite story. So
when we there was no like Amazon Web
Services hadn't really taken off. Um we
Lee the guy chained to the desk and I
had started an open source project um a
long time ago and we had about 80,000
users and we needed servers to develop
Cloudflare on. And I was like, how are
we going to get servers? we don't have
any money and what are we going to do?
And uh and Michelle said, "You know, you
always talk about how like loyal this
Project Honey community is. What if we
just asked them if they can donate
servers to
us?" And that seemed absurd at the time,
but we emailed anyone who was within
about a 50 mile radius of Palo Alto,
which is where our first office was, and
said, "Hey, if you've got an extra
server," and we it ended up emailing
about 200 people. We got a 70% response
rate on people who said either I've got
some server or I know someone who does.
And then Michelle and her Jedha, which
is the same car we actually drove down
here in. Um drove around from person to
person to person picking up all of these
servers, none of which worked. Um
putting them in the in the back of a car
and then we assembled this two. We got
essentially two what turned into these
Franken servers that um that was what
that was what we originally built
Cloudflare on. The most important part
was Michelle actually showed up, talked
to these people, said, "Hey, here's what
we're thinking of building. What do you
think?" And they were the first people
that were giving us feedback on, "Hey,
I'd use it if you did this, but I
wouldn't use it if you did that." And
that was that was really what what that
that driving around in your Jedha, I
think, was what kind of got us our first
first people using the service. Yep.
Definitely. Although, I also couldn't
code, so I had nothing else to do, so
that was a good use of time. Um, that's
important. Again, it was uh like early
on we had a conversation about um you
know Michelle Michelle's background was
was in biochemistry and and chemistry
and and had worked at you know for
Toshiba and Google and we had met in in
business school and um you know from my
perspective like I I knew I instantly
that she was the sort of person that
really filled in the blanks of the
things that I wasn't good at and I kne
I'd known Lee for 10 years. Uh, and what
Michelle did was she just she made sure
we got things done. And you know what we
always talked about is early on um
people ask us a couple things. Uh people
would ask us if we were dating um which
was which was strange and we we weren't.
Um and we're not. And we're not still.
Um don't say that.
So she has kid egg.
Go hang out with Andrew. Um uh the uh so
so they'd ask us that and then the other
would they say they'd say how do you
split up issues and if if you're sitting
in the audience and you're a co-founder
team and you're fighting about who does
what I hate to tell you this but you
probably have the wrong co-founder. Um
because like we've I don't think we any
of the three of us have ever it's been
so clear that Lee builds the stuff.
Michelle makes sure it gets done and I
assemble IKEA furniture that that's um
you
know think of it as a ven diagram back
to my science roots. So we and I've used
this so many times where you know
Matthew Lee and I we're very different.
We cover so much surface area but we
have a little bit of overlap. So we we
share the same vision and we trust one
another and that makes an amazing
founding team. And so if you've already
picked your co-founders, I mean better
to have the conversation now than in
three years seriously because again 5
years in I now understand why
co-founders get into fights and get
pushed out of companies because your
role changes and all these different
sorts of dynamics happen. So today you
should think, okay, my co-founders, do
we do we cover a lot of surface area? Do
we have different skill sets? and is it
somebody that that I trust
fundamentally? And that's those are
really really really important questions
to ask yourself because if so then you
have a really strong foundation to go
forward. And so I think for us we had we
covered a lot of surface area whereas at
first it wasn't obvious like that we
were good co-founders. I mean we didn't
know each other that well. We weren't
that I mean we were we knew each other
but we weren't like best friends. We're
not best friends. Like so sure we went
to business school together but we were
not we just didn't know each other. And
I did not know Lee at all. I knew him
through math at first. Actually, Lee Lee
Lee when we were starting this, Lee
said, "I understand why we're going to
work well, but why do we need Michelle?"
Um, about 3 months in, he said, "I now
understand why we need Michelle, but
we're not sure why we need you." Um
thankfully we kept all of us but these
are the sorts of things where you know
again those decisions early on helped us
attract other people um to fill in the
gaps where we didn't already cover a lot
of area and and make progress early on
and again I think you know if you take
anything away from today it's as a
startup your greatest asset is momentum
you have to make progress you have to
make progress faster than your the
incumbents in the marketplace. And that
can mean anything from building a
product or or or or building um a
community of people who are like
following your blog or it can mean just
um assembling a team that can like build
things scrappily that people sign up for
and use. And that that progress you'll
start to gain a lot of momentum around
you. And that's how really big companies
get built. But it takes a long time. And
it's interesting like the decisions that
you make early on end up affecting much
later. Um, we I remember our first our
first board meeting. We raised money. We
we went in our first board meeting and
we were like, "Okay, so here's the team
and and like Michelle was going to be
vice president of user experience and
Lee was vice president of engineering
and we were hiring this guy who was guy
named Gish Patay who uh was at was at
Facebook and brilliant on their
operations team at Facebook and we were
we were recruiting him out uh to come
work for us and we're like we want to
hire this guy and he's going to be
great. needs to be vice president of
technical operations. And one of our
board members said, "Hey, how many how
many people is this guy hired? How many
people is this guy fired? Like, is this
person really someone who deserves that
title?" And there are really two schools
of thought on titles. There's um there's
sort of the Mark Andre school of
thought, which is that when you hire
someone, there are only so many
different variables that you can play
with. You can you can increase their
salary. You can give them more equity.
You can increase their sort of span of
control. What it is that who it is that
they supervise, what it is they
supervise. You can give them a a bigger
title. And of all of those things, the
cheapest is title. So make everyone, you
know, executive, senior, vice president
of like the earth. Um and and that's and
that's that's one school. The the other
school of thought is the um you know
Mark Zuckerberg school of thought which
is when you've joined Facebook everyone
has to take a step down. So you know if
you're a vice president you become a
director if you're a director you become
an associate if you're an associate you
become a like peon or whatever I don't
know and um and so and we've you know if
I think if we had to do it over again we
would just tell call everyone engineer
like just I don't I don't care if you're
doing customer support you're an
engineer. I don't care if you're doing
finance you're an engineer. I don't care
if you're doing sales just an engineer.
What we did instead though was, you
know, at this first board meeting, we're
like, "Everyone's a vice president." And
the board feedback was, "Honestly, none
of you deserve to be vice
presidents." And I remember we were
driving back um in Michelle's Jedha
again from uh from PaloAlto. Uh and she
said, "You know, honestly, I don't
deserve that title. Lee doesn't deserve
that title. We haven't fired or hired
anyone. Um so maybe we should just get
rid of titles." And you have to you have
to appreciate that for a second how hard
that is as a founder of a company to say
that I'm going to I'm actually going to
say I don't want that. that then set a
precedent where everyone we've hired
since um when they say oh I want to be
you know executive senior vice president
of whatever I go you know Michelle
doesn't have a title why do you get one
and that has has made sure that we're
selecting people who really want to be
there but fundamentally it also meant
that Michelle really had to trust trust
me and trust the rest of the
organization so that when it was the
right time and we've now thankfully not
fired that many people but hired a ton
um and and still talk to every single
candidate that we hire. Um that that now
we've earned earned that title. And so
that that early decision that really
required a humility was and it was easy.
It was easy for me because you know they
were like someone needs to be CEO so you
got to be the CEO. Um but was really
hard for Michelle and Lee. Um, but it
was the right thing to do. And that's I
mean, one of the things I admire the
most about Michelle is Michelle has
um Michelle has ego but no vanity. And
that's like if you can find people that
are like that, you want them to be
around you. Um, because like think of
how we're we're building an
infrastructure technology startup. Think
about how many reporters call us every
single day saying, "Woman, tech
infrastructure technology startup. I
want to write it. Let's put that on the
cover. And Michelle has always said,
"It's the company first. It's not about
me. It's not about any of that. Like,
let's make sure we're telling the right
story about the company." And um and
again, if you can find people like that
to to join your founding team, those are
those are absolutely the people you
want. They're out there. You can find
them.
[Applause]
You know, the other thing that I like I
think has been really key to our success
is that there's that we have, you know,
while I I think we have sort of assued
the women in tech story, I think that
having a woman on on our board and
having that for the sake of diversity is
is really I mean, we're very different
people. Um, my last startup, there were
three of us that started it, we went to
junior high together. Uh we were
essentially three white guys that all
had some combination of technology and
law and we fought like just cats and I
mean it was and like it's a miracle we
even talk uh to this day whereas you
grew up in Canada Lee grew up in right
here in Certino. Um go Canada. Um
al high kind of low vanity high ego
great great I like Canadians. Um we hire
lots of Canadians. Um, but I think
having that that set of diversity and I
I mean I'm still I'm still really proud
of the fact that we walk around the
office and the number of different
languages that are being spoken are are
just incredibly diverse and that has so
much more of kind of an effect on on how
rich the product is and how we sort of
see the rest of the world in a much more
uh unique way. We we do have a really
diverse team and so diversity means lots
of things. gender is one, but um where
they used to work, where they grew up,
um all those just sorts of things really
matter. And so we're a web
infrastructure company. That's like
again that is not something you just
kind of learn overnight. But the number
of people on our team that come from a
web infrastructure background, it's very
it's it's very very small. In fact, like
for the first 25 hires, no one did. And
in a way, so some people early on really
gave us a lot of, oh my god, you need to
go hire all these Sun Microsystem people
and Juniper people and all these people
who really understand how they get or
Aami people and they really they really
there's investors who really pressured
us to do that and we kind of said we're
we're happy you know let us keep doing
our thing and what I hear now a lot of
people is if you are trying to do
something where you know a lot about the
industry sometimes you don't check your
assumptions enough it's really hard to
really find that
ide has made something magical but it
was a very adjacent industry and so if
you're if you're in in our seats where
you're like oh I'm trying to start
something but I'm actually not an expert
in it I would say you are in an
advantage as long as you're interested
you have to actually you have to deeply
be like I'm I I'm fascinated by this
problem I don't feel like I necessarily
understand all the different corners of
it but sometimes by not understanding
all of that like everyone who competed
with us always charged on bandwidth we
we had no idea we were supposed to do
that so we just don't um and as a result
you know we've that's that's been a real
key to us growing as quickly as we have
we were a bit naive of how hard it would
be we've come up against some very hard
technical problems but you But that if
you're looking to hire engineers, good
engineers want to work on hard technical
problems and we have found really great
solutions to those technical problems
and that's been corridor success. What
we always say is okay if we can solve
this that just increases the hurdle for
the people that are behind us. It's and
is like one of the things I'm struck by
when because we're in a fortune position
now where a lot of entrepreneurs come to
ask for advice and there are a lot of
people that gave us over advice over the
years. So we try and make time for that.
But oftentimes the ideas that come in
people try to understand all sort of
four corners of the idea from the
beginning and and that's I mean if you
can see all of the problems it probably
isn't a big enough idea and the the the
reality is it takes about as much time
and about as much effort to build like
an iPhone app that tells people when
you're running
late which is just a really legit
ridiculously stupid idea.
um as it does to build Cloudflare,
right? And that's and that's you know,
so which are you want to work on? And if
you're an employee, which do you want to
work on? You want to work on something
where you actually can really make a
dent in in what the universe is doing?
And you know, today one out of every 20
web requests, 5% of web requests flow
through our network. Um, you know, it's
huge huge huge organizations rely on us
uh to be available and online and it is
incredibly stressful. Um, but at least
we matter. Like the wor the curse is if
you're sitting around and you see people
in your organization who are bored. Like
if if that's true, start firing people
because you you really do like the that
the somewhat um uh the critique
sometimes our team uh will will level on
us is that you know we always talk about
how we're running hot where we want to
run incredibly hot based on what it is.
There's never been a company in history
that's done a billion page views per
employee. We do five billion. Um, and
that's really, really hard. And we, as a
result, though, we end up attracting
some of the most talented people in the
world. Just just this week, this guy
Olifer walks into our office, starts.
Turns out he's one of seven people in
the world that have done the
cryptographic signing of the DNS route,
and he holds 17th of the DNS key. and he
says, "You guys are doing interesting
things. I want to come and work there."
Work on hard things. Work on big
challenges. Work on things that make you
uncomfortable. Make it bigger. And it's
going to be hard no matter what you do.
But if if it works, you know, in one
case, you've made an iPhone app that
tells people when you're running late.
In the other case, you know, you've
helped protect democracy in Hong Kong
and and, you know, have have the, you
know, government of the UK as a customer
and and really do things that are are
meaningful and impactful and get to work
with really incredible people. Yeah. So
again the
the when you think about the idea you're
working on you want to make sure it's
big and ma and matters because you know
when we started someone back backstage
asked did you really think that it was
going to because we've been doing it for
5 years now did you realize you were
signing up for you know a 5year term and
so if you look at the data the average
time to exit whether it's an acquisition
or IPO even though I know Andrew said
don't do that whatever it is I'm less
negative on IPOs is eight years. Average
time is eight years. But I did not think
of that when I started Cloudflare. And
you know what? It doesn't matter because
I was like, "This is interesting. I'm
signing up for this. I think if it's
going to work, it's going to be amazing.
If it doesn't, well, at least I can say
I tried." And so, you know, don't get
too hung up on that. But do pick
something that you're going to like put
your blood, sweat, and tears into
because there's definitely a lot of
blood, sweat, and tears. The other thing
that's crazy, I think, is that it like
early on it's a roller coaster. Yes. And
it's up and down and up and down and up
and down like by the hour. Um it's no
different now. I mean, we had a phone
call this morning that didn't go
particularly well. Uh and we're driving
down here going, "Wow, that wasn't our
finest hour." And uh and then the phone
rang again and it was another phone call
and it just completely switched the day.
Um and and that's and this is Saturday,
right? And uh and that's that's just
it's amazing how how much going up and
down matters. And that's why you know
again coming back to having other people
around you who you really trust and you
really value whether they're they're
co-founders or they're investors. And I
think actually that's one of the things
we've been really really good at is
picking really great investors. But
um having someone that you can trust and
that you that you know when when you do
have the worst of all possible things
happen uh you're willing to call them up
and say say here's this really horrible
thing that happened. Um what we talk
about is our litmus test for who we
invite to be on our board which is
essentially you know who your investor
is is if you imagine the worst of all
possible things that could happen. And
you know, in our case, that's our
network gets hacked and sites on our
network get redirected to something
else. That's that's like our disaster
scenario. Um, would we would we hesitate
for a second calling someone who is on
our board? And and if the answer is yes,
they probably don't belong there, right?
Um, and if you have any sort of Scooby
sense about someone who you're about to
have as an investor that like, ah, I'm
not sure I really want this person, but
you know, they're going to give me a
really high valuation. Run as fast as
you possibly can. Like in our last
round, we actually took the lowest
possible the lowest valuation that we
received um be which was half of what
the what the what the highest was. um
because we wanted one particular person
to be in the boardroom, although we
didn't actually even technically give
him a board seat. Um but still he's
still there, but still he's there and
he's and he's incredibly valuable. And I
mean I think that that was choosing
based choosing based on surrounding
yourself with great people whether again
it's co-founders, employees, investors
ends up being so much matter more
important over the long term than sort
of saying we're going to dial you know
that you I'm going to maximize on how
much the how much the stock is worth.
Yeah. So if people tell you oh maximize
on valuation the person doesn't matter.
That's not true. that all investors are
not created equal. And you know, five
years in, we've we've we've done three
rounds of fundraising. We've we've
raised over $70 million. We've talked to
a lot of
investors, people who are have huge
brand names, you know, top-notch.
They're not all created equal. And so,
you need to find the what we maximize on
and what again I really strongly
encourage you to do is talk to them and
find out what the vision for their
company is. And you want to make sure
the visions align. And I'll tell you the
ones the investors that we have with our
envisions align. They want to make the
internet better and and that might mean
making decisions today that delay
revenue and all these different other
sorts of things and growing at a
responsible rate. So, you know, we and
we've as as a board have said that's
what we want to do. We've had other
investors who again are really great
investors who said, "Oh, you have to go
faster. You have to grow faster. You
have to do it. You have to hire four
times the number of people you're
hiring." And we were just like we don't
want to do that cuz we don't think that
that's responsible and again another
company might like might choose the
other and that's fine but you want to
align if you but once you make a
decision on who to take money from you
it is very hard to get out of that
decision. So, it's okay to have those
conversations upfront and we again we've
we again well-known investors we've gone
very far down the path with and imagine
you bring the board along with you and
then you've said you know what we're
actually not going to go that way
because we disagree with their vision
and that and you can do that as as
management of your company and so these
are just the sorts of things that if you
pick the right people along the way the
other people are on the board say okay
well I trust you guys so if that's it
then we're we back you and and let's and
and and let's on the right partner for
us to build the company into everything
it can. And so those are examples of
where people really do matter. So we're
out of time. We're out of time. Um thank
you for so much for tolerating our our
sort of rambling discussion. Um and good
luck. Yeah.