Title: YC's Director of Events Domonique Fines with Elpha CEO Cadran Cowansage
Video ID: L8A2movTZGk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L8A2movTZGk
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2019-03-11T14:20:09Z
Duration: PT21M23S
Views: 2299
Likes: 26
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Domonique Fines, Cadran Cowansage, Elpha, Events, Event Planning, Tech Events, Interview
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 651

Description:
Domonique Fines is the Director of Events at YC.

https://twitter.com/domoniquefines

Cadran Cowansage is the cofounder and CEO of Elpha. Elpha is a private online community for women in tech.

https://twitter.com/cadran_c
https://elpha.com/

***

Topics

00:05 - Dom’s intro

00:25 - How Dom started in events and her background

2:00 - Deciding to not go to law school

3:30 - Choosing to work on tech events

5:35 - Outreach to underrepresented founders

8:50 - Common misconceptions about getting

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Dom, tell us a few words about you, what
you work on, etc.
Yeah. So, I am director of events at YC.
Um, I basically do all of our
public-facing, large-scale events. So,
anything from demo days, the female
founders conferences, our outreach
tours, um, and then also just most
recently work at a startup, and then
several things in between. Awesome. Uh,
so, how did you get started in events
and, you know, working at YC? Was this
sort of a planned path or have you been
figuring out it out as you go?
Yeah. Um, I would say I've been figuring
it out as I go. Um, I have more so a
jumpy, uh, background. So, originally I
was planning to go to school to become
an attorney.
And I would say like about a week before
I was supposed to apply to law school,
um, I definitely just changed my mind. I
was working at an entertainment law firm
at the time, and I just figured out that
it just wasn't something that I wanted
to do.
And I told myself that I wanted to plan
tech events. And at the time, I had no
clue what that even meant. Like, what
does that mean? You want to plan tech
events? I didn't know. I just knew I
wasn't going to law school. So, I moved
back from Atlanta. Um, I went to Clark
Atlanta University, and I moved back
from Atlanta home to Oakland. And from
there, I was just working at a law firm
during the day from 9:00 to 5:00, and
then at lunchtime, I would actually
sleep in my car, and then after work, I
would go to my family's club, Me Lounge,
and I would run that at nighttime. And
then I would do that same thing every
day over and over and over until I found
a job that would allow me to do events.
So, I ended up at Frog Design, um, as an
office manager, and they allowed me to
do events at like South by Southwest and
different hackathons. So, from there, I
was able to create a portfolio and make
sure that I was marketing myself as an
events person. And, um, from there, YC
found me. That's awesome. I love that
and that it you sort of like hacked
getting into it.
Uh, I want to jump back to, you know,
your sort of deviation from going to law
school for a second. Um, you know, you
said you changed your mind a week before
you went.
Like what was that process like? You
know,
how
how long did it take to make the final
decision that you were going to make
that change?
Yeah,
well I would say it took me quite a
while of course because I waited that
late to go and change my mind.
But honestly I was definitely afraid.
This was one thing that I knew like my
entire life I wanted to do. Just that's
the only thing I knew I was going to be
an attorney. I was going to be an
attorney. That's the only thing that
everyone knew about me. I was into
fashion also I wanted to be an attorney.
So for me to just have that feeling
inside of me just thinking like wow I
just really really don't want to do this
and I know that if I don't do it I'm
going to be disappointing so many
people. I was really really hurt and
afraid and also I didn't know how to
explain what I wanted to do at the time.
So it just came down to a simple call. I
basically just called my mom and I told
her I was like hey you know like
I do not want to be an attorney and I'm
going to move home and I'm going to plan
tech events. And she's like great, where
are you going to live?
And I was like what? I have a room. Like
my high school room. It's still there.
I'm sure it's there. And
so that was a learning experience for me
too. But I would say that it was the
best decision I ever made because if I
didn't make that jump or take that step
then I would probably end up doing
things that I I'm not like I have no
enjoyment of. Like and right now I'm
like super passionate about events and I
always will be. That's awesome.
And so how did you know it was tech
events, you know?
Yeah, odd story. So when people would
get dropped off at the mall
like in high school or junior high or
whatever, I would get dropped off at
RadioShack. And and I it's it's really
weird but I loved RadioShack. I loved
seeing how things worked. I loved taking
things apart. And then at some point I
started to like walk around the store
and act as if I was working there which
was weird at first, but then like the
the manager wanted to hire me. So, I've
always just been interested in how
things work. And so, I knew that that
was always a part of tech, but I I had
no idea that tech would blow like this.
Mhm. Yeah. Totally. And so, um you know,
did it feel like making that transition,
did it feel super scary, or you just
sort of went for it, or how did you sort
of get your start?
Yeah, it felt very scary, especially
because my entire background had nothing
to do with events.
Mhm. But also, it had everything to do
with events. So, um my professional
background didn't have any event
planning experience, but my personal
background was I was always the one
bringing everyone together. Um I was the
one the one doing the events for my
sorority in college. Um Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority Incorporated, Sigma
Chapter. And um
I've just always been a part of events,
and I've always loved the little details
of it. So, and on one side of my brain,
you know, people are left-sided and
right-sided, and I would say that I'm
both. Um like I'm really serious about
the details, but also like the creative
side is what drives me. Very cool. And
so, I have one sort of funny question,
but uh so, is like what are the big
differences creating an event for like
in a club context versus uh a tech
context? I mean, I think we can think of
some obvious ones, but are there any
sort of funny, interesting ones?
Um let's see. I would say the main thing
is the target audience.
Yeah.
Of course.
Uh for clubs, you kind of just want
anybody there. Like you want someone to
show up. You need that number. And for
YC and for tech events, it's all about
the quality and who we have come to the
events and then the outcome of it. Um
and the outcome of the club is just like
how much money did we make? And can we
make more? Yes, for sure.
Yeah, yeah.
So, that sort of leads me into my next
question, which is uh about outreach.
So, you know, I know that you think a
lot about who is actually attending
these events, and and you um have sort
of taken on
uh
supporting YC's outreach efforts uh
particularly with black students and in
the black communities, and I'd love to
hear more about sort of how you think
about that and and also the work you're
doing. Yeah.
Um so, I would say well, right now or in
the past couple of years, um I've worked
with
Code 2040. Um I've given scholarships
with Team Arsenal, um Bay Area
Seminoles, and then also my church, New
Life Community Membership Church. And
basically,
what I've done is try to think about
things that I've learned at YC that I
had no idea about and that I could have
known just from being in the area. So,
what's happening right now in Silicon
Valley is there's all these different
companies and all this different
information and all these different
people coming out of this space. Well,
right in the backyard is Oakland, and
there's people that have no idea what's
going on. And not that they're not
brilliant people or that they can't do
those things, but they just have no
no access to it, and they don't know.
So, the things that I've been learning,
I've just been learning to like start
pretty small, and that's just basically
teaching people exactly like, "Oh, well,
you know, what is Silicon Valley? What
does tech mean? What is a startup?
What's a startup versus a small
business? You know, how can I get
involved in that?" And I think that
starting small is something that you
need to do in order to go larger. So,
I've worked with Oakland Public School
Districts in doing like
different like career weeks and teaching
them all about YC and startups. And then
also, um I've also worked with um
Big Brothers and Big Sisters of the Bay
Area, um kind of just ushering them into
the space. And then one thing that I was
super proud about that um I was very
passionate about was bringing in the
Raiders. So, I met with them and I got
them to come to like some of our startup
schools to like learn how to invest in
companies, and then also, um got them to
come to our demo days so they can invest
in companies themselves. And I feel like
you you have to start small, but also
you have to use those people that are
role models. Like teach them first, and
then they can like branch out and teach
others as well. Oh, that's super smart.
I really like that idea.
Um
have the role been really receptive to
the work you're doing or how have they
been?
Yeah. Yeah, they're super receptive and
also I think they feel very comfortable
with talking to me because
um, I let them know and I I'm very
upfront about this with everyone that I
I had no idea what YC was or what it did
or like anything about the startup space
and I kind of just dug into it and
figured it out and of course I learned a
lot from YC as well, but sometimes it's
very intimidating when you're in um,
this space and you feel like everyone
knows so much and you don't know
anything. So you tend to just like
be shy or like kind of just like stand
back or like stand in the shadows and
not wanting to ask those kind of
questions that could make you look or
feel like you're less than. Um, so I
feel like they feel very comfortable
with talking to me about things like
that and um, it makes me feel good as
well. And then I'm I'm super honest. I'm
like, "Hey, if they ask me something
that I don't know, I'm like, you know, I
really don't know, but
I could probably find someone that could
answer that for you."
That's awesome. Yeah, being comfortable
in saying when you don't know something
is really hard, especially
uh, like in a work context. So,
yeah, I I relate and understand
completely. Very cool. Um, and so are
there any common misconceptions that pop
up over and over with students or, you
know,
when you're meeting with people who
don't really know about tech that you
want to just get out there, get get
people over?
Yeah, um, I think that the most common
one is everyone thinks that you have to
have like a particular background or
like they have um, this this background
that's like, "Oh, well, you went to you
had to go to MIT or did you go to
Harvard? Or, you know, like, what's your
what's your tech background?" And
honestly, like I do not have a tech
background. Um, I I created like a space
for myself based off of the things that
I was interested in and I think if
people just like follow their own dreams
and goals versus trying to follow a path
that others have created, then um, then
it'll work out. And then also
this misconception of there are no there
are no women at YC, there are no black
people at YC, there is no you know,
there's all these things and it's like
when I'm walking around with all these
different people, it's like it's it's
definitely very diverse and we're doing
everything that we can to possibly bring
more people in, but I think it's also
very important that I do things like
this so people know that, you know, I am
here and I am a voice and I'm helping
out a lot and
those are the two things that I think
are
the things that are like definitely a
relic or misconception for sure. Got it,
for sure. And you you work with your
university as well. Tell me a little bit
about that.
Yeah, so
basically during the outreach tour we go
to a bunch of different stops domestic
and international and we host office
hours, we do different talks
and most recently I did um
an outreach tour at Morehouse College
which is basically right across the
street from Clark Atlanta, it's a part
of the AUC. So, we did office hours
there and then we did a talk there and
I'm planning to go back um 2019 to do
like an entire AUC tour. Um I think it's
very important that
that everyone has access to all the
information that there is this space and
that there's other jobs that they can
apply for. Just everything's not all
about being a doctor, a lawyer, a
dentist and you know, engineer at this
point. Um you can be in tech and not be
an engineer or not have a tech
background.
Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Um and so one of
the things that I've been super
impressed by, you know, as we've gotten
to know each other
at YC is just the way you sort of
proactively identify
you know, holes or problems that you see
and they have nothing necessarily to do
with your job,
but you then just go tackle them.
You know, how do you think about that?
Is that something that is you have sort
of you've built up the muscle for over
time or you've thought about actively or
tell me a little bit more about that.
I'll say that my total frame of thinking
is totally different ever since I
started at YC. So now when I go about
things, I'm always thinking about what's
the problem I'm trying to fix here. And
that's Yeah, very YC like he's just like
he has embedded this inside my brain. I
find myself like working on things. When
I first started I would work on things
and be like
like just working on it for so long. And
then he'd be like, "I'm sorry, but like
what are you trying to fix here?" And
I'd be like
well, I mean I I guess nothing. I guess
I guess I'm not trying to fix anything
here. So now I try to make sure when I'm
am working on things or I'm looking for
things that are broken to find those
ways that I can fix them. Mhm. Yeah. And
how do you avoid feeling blocked by
them? Like as an employee I think
sometimes people feel like oh there's a
problem in my organization but I'm just
one person, you know, I'm not a leader
in the classic sort of
terms. Like how how do you go about sort
of doing the things that you know are
the right things to do and you know can
help sort of fix problems and avoiding
that? Um I would say it's still very
nerve-wracking and that's like a normal
thing to feel I think in any role.
Yeah. Um
but instead of thinking like oh I'm just
one person, I think to myself I am the
person. So there has to always be one
person to step out and do it for others
to follow. Everyone's not going to be
that leader. Um just like sometimes
people ask like oh well how many you
know, how many black people are at this
company or how many black people are at
that company. And all the time you're
not going to always get the answer that
you want. But how about you be that
person and then others will follow you.
Yeah, for sure. Have do you feel like
you've started to see the work you're
doing make a difference in terms of
like, you know,
uh folks you've talked to going and
trying out tech or like applying to YC
or things like that or how's that been
going?
Yeah, definitely. Um I feel like so last
year this past year I did um
three female founders conferences, one
in New York, one in Seattle, and one in
San Francisco.
And the one in New York was amazing. I'm
I'm sorry. Love Seattle, love San
Francisco. Love it. Love it.
But the one in New York was so diverse.
Like it was crazy. And I remember
Jessica came up to me she was like,
"Wow, Dom." She was like, "Look at all
these different kinds of people here."
And I was like,
"I know." And I was just standing back
and I was looking at the room and I was
like, "Wow. Like I really did that." You
know, it's like you work on things for
so long and you're always thinking about
the future. What's your next step?
What's your next step? But you never
kind of like sit there and like kind of
flourish and just realize what you're
doing and what you're working on now and
how it's and how the outcome has
affected people. Yeah. So, um
yeah. It feels good. Yeah, that's
awesome. Good work. Thank you. Um do you
take time to sort of stop and reflect
and think about how things are going or
how do you incorporate that into
uh your life? Um honestly, I haven't and
that's bad. That's not That's not good.
I don't suggest that. Yeah.
Um so, I just keep I kind of just like
keep going and going and going going. Of
course I know like when my stopping
point is. Like I know when it's time for
self-care. I know when it's time to just
like kind of fall back and take a break.
Um but it wasn't until recently like I
just listed out all of the events that
I've done and when I see them and the
people that I've worked with and I was
just like, "What What? Like who is this
person? Like who is this girl?" Like so,
um I've just recently started to do that
and I think I'll do it more. That's
awesome. Yeah, I think making those like
very positive lists about the things
that you've accomplished is really I
find also really useful cuz I don't do
it naturally either. So,
um
and so do you have a like a plan for
your career about where you want to go
and what you want to do or are you sort
of figuring it out as you go?
I'm sort of I'm just figuring it out
because this was my like
end goal. Like I wanted to be like an
event planner
like for the top tech company. Like that
was my thing. I'm going to be an event
planner for the top tech company. And
now I just feel like I you know I'm
there and I'm I'm definitely making a
difference and doing things and there's
only there's so many like ways of
creativity that I can change my role
here.
Um
but right now I don't know like I have
no idea what's next. Um I think that the
only clear option here is to work for
Beyoncé.
I I I don't know I don't know what else
would come after this. Sounds pretty
cool.
That's awesome. And so do you do you I
put any pressure on yourself to have
like know those things or you know sort
of play it by ear?
I used to. That was a huge thing for me
in college and even before college like
in high school like being pressured to
figure out like figure out what you want
to do for the rest of your life. Pick a
major right now. Like get these
scholarships, you know, but it's not
about that. I think it's about figuring
out as you go and I've learned that I've
accomplished a lot more without putting
those certain constraints on like my
career because at that time I was just
only going and moving towards that
specific direction. But now there's all
these different areas, directions, like
I can just literally like do you can do
whatever you want to do. It's just about
like how you use your time and I don't
want to limit myself to just one
different area or like where to go.
That's why I'm not interested in grad
school.
Got it. And do you think you'll ever do
a startup?
You know
I never thought I would before YC but I
find myself like creating all types of
startups in my mind.
And if there was a startup that could
create startups, then I would go to that
startup to make my startup. I think
you're at
the subject of creating a startup. I
think you're there.
Okay, maybe maybe. I don't know. I don't
know. We'll see. We'll see.
Very cool, very cool. Um and so I
um
you know talking a little bit more about
like you're obviously super busy and
you've taken on a lot. How do you
balance it? How do you avoid burnout?
You know, what is your practice for
Yeah.
Um
I think that
well, it it also helps that
I create the YC calendar, the events
calendar, so that helps
that helps like kind of spacing things
out. Um
it's important to know like when you
can't do any more. Um I I feel like when
you when you continue to work and you're
burnt out like you're not offering the
best of the work that you can do and
then the outcome of it is not the best.
So, what I do is after each event
I do like a staycation or I go out of
town. Like everyone knows like I love I
love traveling, so like that's my thing.
Um
but I can do anything from oh, I'm I'm
away. I'm staying in a treehouse. Like
oh, now I'm staying in a yurt or now I'm
going to be sleeping on the beach. I
don't know. But but it's good
it's good to just like get away and shut
off and just kind of like just refresh
and replenish cuz you can never be
successful while you're like running on
the go go go go go and burnt out and
that's one thing that I really
appreciate about YC is like, you know,
they respect like how I work and like
they know like that's that's the way
that I I can do it and that's the only
way that things are going to get done.
So,
Yeah. That's pretty cool. Do you like
when you're on those trips, when you're
reflecting and refreshing, are you
reflecting also on the work you've been
doing or do you like put that somewhere
else for later?
Yeah, I don't think about work at all
while I'm there. So, I try to just shut
off completely. So, the things that I'm
thinking about are okay, where do I see
myself in 10 years or um maybe I want to
learn how to, you know, do aerial
dancing. Maybe I should just join Cirque
du Soleil. I don't know.
Like so, I'm thinking about all the
things that I never get a chance to
think about while I'm um while I'm
working
cuz I don't think that people understand
or realize we run a like really small
close-knit team and I and I appreciate
that about YC, but I think that people
feel like or think like we have this
entire events team and they don't
realize that I I am the team. There is
no An events team of one.
Right, exactly. So, a lot of my brain is
dedicated to events and it it really
shuts off. So, when I do go away and I
am like not working, it's it's it's kind
of difficult to shut it off. Like I I
I'm constantly thinking about events.
Like it can never just go away, but I
would say while I'm out, I think about
it less. That sounds good.
Yeah.
And when you're on these trips, like
you know, are you checking email? Do you
totally cut off? How do you do it?
I would say and and my friends would
tell you I never totally cut off. Yeah.
I'm like 75 80% cut off, but there's
always that moment like my phone goes
off and I have an instinct to like just
grab it because I need to know who's
emailing me. I'm addicted. I need to
see.
But it's it's a really good feeling when
I do finally just shut it off. Like I
can go a day, maybe. I can't I feel like
I can't go longer than a day without
just shutting off. Um, but I would say I
don't respond as frequently as I would
during my shutdown time. Your shutdown
time. Yeah, yeah. During my shutdown.
And is there anything any parting words
before we go that you want to share?
Um, yeah. Um, I just want people to know
that
um, it doesn't really matter like how
small or how big you start, but I think
the main point is to just start. Like do
something. Whatever it is you want to
do. I mean, I don't know. You could be
wanting to learn how to fly a kite. You
could be wanting to be the next
president, not sure, but just start
somewhere. I think like the longer you
wait, you start doubting yourself more
and more and more and those doubts and
fears stop you from who you are truly
supposed to be. So, just start wherever.
Whatever Wherever that is for you, just
do that. Yeah, big or small. Yeah.
Good advice.
Thanks, Tom. Thanks.
Mhm.