Title: Windsurf CEO: Betting On AI Agents, Pivoting In 48 Hours, And The Future of Coding
Video ID: LKgAx7FWva4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKgAx7FWva4
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-05-02T14:00:35Z
Duration: PT52M36S
Views: 251203
Likes: 4126
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1703

Description:
Varun Mohan didn't set out to build one of the fastest-growing AI developer tools. He just knew his company had to change, or die.

After initially betting on GPU virtualization, he saw the writing on the wall: if there was a future for his company, it would be at the AI application layer, not infra. Over a single weekend, he and his team pivoted to building Windsurf— a tool to help everyone, both technical and non-technical, write code faster and smarter.

In this conversation, Varun shares the

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

One of the things that I think is is
true for any startup is you have to keep
proving yourself. Every single insight
that we have is a depreciating insight.
You look at a company like Nvidia. If
Nvidia doesn't innovate in the next two
years, AMD will be on their case. That's
why I'm completely okay with a lot of
our insights being wrong. Um if we don't
continually have insights that we are
executing on, uh we are just slowly
dying. This notion of just a developer
is is probably going to broaden out to
what's called a builder. And uh I think
everyone is going to be a builder. I
think software is going to be this very
very democratized thing.
[Music]
Welcome back to another episode of the
Light Cone. Today we've got a real
treat. We have the co-founder and CEO of
Windsurf, one of the people who
literally brought Vibe Coding into
existence, Verun. Thanks for joining us.
Thanks for having me, guys. Where is
Windinsurf now? Like all of us
intuitively know. I mean, well, we use
it, but you know, how big is it now?
Where is it? Yeah. So, the the product
has had well over a million developers
kind of use uh the product um has has
hundreds of thousands of daily active
users right now. It's being used for all
sorts of things from modifying large
code bases to building apps extremely
quickly, 0ero to one. Um and uh and
we're super excited to see where the
technology is going. Let's get to the
brass tax. How did you get started? The
company actually started uh four years
ago. uh we didn't start as windsurf uh
we actually started as a company called
exofunction we were a GPU virtualization
company at the time uh previously me and
my co-founder had worked on autonomous
vehicles and ARVR and we believe deep
learning was going to transform many
many industries uh from financial
services to defense to healthcare uh
many industries yeah uh we might have
timed it wrong though ultimately we
built a system to make it easier to run
these deep learning workloads uh and
similar to what VMware does for
computers and CPUs. We did that for
GPUs. Um the middle of 2022 rolled
around though and what happened at the
time was we were managing upwards of
10,000 GPUs for a handful of companies
and we had made it to a couple million
in revenue but the transformer became
very popular with these models like text
Da Vinci from OpenAI and we felt that
that was going to fundamentally disrupt
the business we had or that small small
business that we had at the time uh
because we felt that everyone was going
to run these transformer type models and
in a world in which everyone was going
to run one type of model architecture
transformers we thought if we were a GPU
infrastructure provider, we would get
commoditized, right? If everyone's going
to do the same thing, what is our alpha
alpha going to be? So, at the time, we
basically said, hey, could we take our
technology and wholesale pivot the
company to do something else? And that's
that's scary. Yeah, that was that was a
a bet the company moment. We did it
within a weekend. Uh so, you know,
weekend me and my co-founder had a
conversation along the lines of I don't
think this is going to work. We don't
think we know how to scale this company.
Um and uh at the time, we were early
adopters of GitHub copilot. We told the
rest of the company on Monday and uh
everyone started working on Kodium which
is the extension product uh the Monday
immediately after. I'm just curious to
like dig into this pivot story because
it's like pretty rare actually to hear
like the details of a pivot especially a
late stage pivot like at the time that
you guys decided to pivot to codium. How
far along was the company? How many how
many people One of the things about the
company was I guess like we tried to
embrace a lot of the YC uh sort of
analogies here of you know ramen
profitability all these other uh sort of
key insights. We were only a team of
eight people at the time even though we
were making a couple million in revenue.
We were kind of like free cash flow
positive. It was the peak of zero
interest rate uh at that time. So the
company was a year and a half old. We
had raised somehow magically $28 million
of of cash at the time. And uh I think
the big point here uh in our in our
minds was um it doesn't matter if we're
doing kind of well now if we didn't know
how to scale it, we kind of need to
change things like really fast. I guess
the thing that's remarkable is when you
started the company, you had this thesis
where you were betting that a lot of
companies were going to build their own
custom deep learning pipelines to train
birds, right? That was like the thing
that was working. But in 2022, you saw
the hockey stick shift that suddenly
there would be one model that would rule
them all. So you were foreshadowing a
lot of the future and there's a lot of
it that came from that conviction. So
I'm curious what were those signs
because you had to be really embedded
into it to we're making already seven
figures. You could have raised a series
A. You're like we're going to throw that
all that away and burn it. Yeah. So
actually even crazily enough we had
raised our series A at that time. So but
whether or not we should have been able
to is a is a different question. No, I
think you're you're totally right. I
think one of the things that was
happening at the time was we were
working with largely speaking these
autonomous vehicle companies because
they had the largest sort of deep
learning workloads at the time and we
were sort of seeing hey that workload is
growing and it's large but we were
betting fundamentally that the other
workloads which were these other natural
language workloads uh kind of like these
workloads in these other industries like
financial services healthcare would take
off but I think once we saw these these
models these generative models handle so
many of the use cases right uh maybe an
example is in the past you would train a
BERT model uh to actually go ahead and
do sentiment classification. But very
quickly when we tried even a bad version
of GPT3 like the very old version, we
were like this is going to kill
sentiment classification. There's no
reason why anyone is going to train a
very custom model anymore for this task.
I think we saw the writing on the wall
that our hypothesis was just wrong,
right? And uh and that's like one of
those things, right? you go in with some
thesis on on uh on where you believe the
space is going to go, but if your
hypothesis is wrong and and you know
information on the ground changes, you
have to change really fast. So then what
did you decide to do? So it's like you
decided, okay, we're going to pivot and
when we work with founders, that's kind
of stage one. So you're not half foot
in, half foot out. So you had that
conviction, we need to try something
out. How do you figure out what was
going to be the next step? I think we
needed to pick something that actually
everyone at the company was going to be
excited about. I think if we had picked
something that was was what we thought
could be valuable but people were not
excited about we would ultimately we
would fail we'd fail immediately. We
came with an opinionated stance of we
were early adopters of a product called
GitHub copilot. We thought that that was
the tip of the iceberg on where the
technology could go. Obviously everyone
at the company was a developer. Uh dev
tool companies generally speaking
usually don't do that well in the in the
past. They have not. But hey like when
you have no other options it's a very
easy decision, right? Like you're going
to be a zero with a high probability
anyways. uh you might as well pick
something that you think could be
valuable and everyone's going to be
motivated to work on. I everyone's
forgot this now it feels like because
GitHub copilot's in the background but
at that particular moment it felt
inevitable that copilot was going to win
right like it just had everything like
the GitHub connection Microsoft
distribution like open AI open AI yeah
like it it would it seemed like no one
could compete so how did you have like
the bravery to be like ah yeah we can
totally crush yeah co-pilot yeah so this
is where uh there's there's like an
irrational optimism piece I've said this
before but uh to the company. But I
think startups require like two distinct
beliefs and they're they actually kind
of like run counter uh to to each other.
You need this irrational optimism
because if you don't have the optimism,
you just won't do anything. You're just
a pessimist and a skeptic and those
people don't really accomplish anything
in life. Um and you need uncompromising
realism, which is that when the when the
facts change, you actually change your
mind, right? Uh and that's a very hard
thing to do both because the thing that
makes you succeed through irrational
optimism like you know is exactly
opposite to the things that allow you to
be a very realistic company. So
irrational optimism we basically said
hey we know how to run and train models
ourselves. We actually trained the first
autocomplete models ourselves and ran it
on our product gave it out for free. I
don't think we had the exact road map on
where this was going but we just felt
there was a lot more to do here. Um and
if the if uh if we couldn't do it then I
guess we'd die. uh but we might as well
bet that we could do it. Were your early
versions better than copilot GitHub
copilot at the time? So our earliest
version that we shipped out was
materially worse than GitHub copilot.
The only difference was it was free. Uh
we built a VS code extension after pivot
within I think 2 months we had shipped
the product and given it out to
hackernews uh like posted something on
hackernews. Um and uh we we built that
out. it was missing a lot of key
features like the model that we were
running was like an open source model
that was not nearly good as the model
that GitHub copilot was running. Uh very
quickly then our training infrastructure
got better. So we actually went out and
trained our own models uh based on the
task and then suddenly it actually got
capabilities that even GitHub copilot
didn't within 2 months. Basic
capabilities. Now we'd find this like
hilarious that it was even
state-of-the-art but our our model could
actually fill in the middle of code. So
when you're writing code, you're not
only just adding code at the end of your
cursor, but you're filling it in between
two parts between two parts of a line,
right? And that code is very incomplete
and looks nothing like the training data
of these original models, right? So we
trained our models to make it actually
very very capable for that use case. And
uh that actually allowed us to pull
ahead in terms of the quality, latency,
um we were able to control a lot of
details within a couple months. So the
beginning of 2023, I'd say the
autocomplete capabilities were much
better than what co-pilot had. Was that
a totally new capability for you guys?
Cuz like you guys have been building GPU
infrastructure. It sounds like you
basically hacked together the first
version by taking an off-the-shelf open
source model, sticking it into like a VS
Code extension and just kind of like
wiring the two to like talk to each
other. But then right after that, you
had to train your own coding model like
from scratch. And you guys have been
like following the transformer stuff,
but like you hadn't built it. Like in
order to do that, I assume you had to
like download all of GitHub and like
train a whole model from scratch. How
did you all figure out how to do that in
like only two months? Yeah. Um it's a
it's a great question. So first of all,
when we ran the model ourselves, the
reason why we were able to run it and
provide it for free is we actually had
our own inference runtime at the time
and that that obviously came from the
fact that we were originally a GPU
virtualization company to start with. So
that enabled us to actually ship the
vzero with an open source product uh
quite quickly. Immediately after that,
you're totally right. We had never
trained a model like this in the past.
Uh but I think we hired people that were
smart, capable, and and uh excited to to
win. Uh so we needed to figure it out.
There is no other option, right?
otherwise you die. Um, makes the
decision-m really really simple. So,
yeah, we had to figure out how how do
you get a lot of data? How do you do
this at scale? How do you clean this
data? How do you make it so that it's
actually capable of of uh handling this
case where code is very incomplete? And
uh we shipped a we shipped a a model
like very very quickly after that. Wow.
And you did all of that with like
eightish people in two months. Yeah,
that's right. And then right after that
because you were running your own models
you started getting interesting
customers right? Yeah. So basically what
happened the product was free at the
time. So we ended up getting a lot of
developers using the product across all
the ids. So VS code jet brains um
Eclipse Vim company started reaching out
because they not wanted to not only I
guess run the product in a secure way.
They also wanted to personalize it to
all the private data inside the company.
So very quickly afterwards in the next
coming months companies like Dell, JP
Morgan Chase started to become customers
of our of our product. Um now these
companies have like tens of thousands of
developers on the product internally.
But we started actually m making a lot
of focus of the company. Making sure
that the product works on these very
large code bases. Some of these
companies have code bases that are well
over a 100 million lines of code, right?
And making sure that the suggestions are
are fast is one thing, but making sure
it's actually personalized to the
codebase and the environment that they
have was almost a requirement at the
time. You did that pivot, you built it
in two months, then shipped it, and
within a couple of months, you got these
big logos. Yeah. So, I mean, obviously
these companies take some time to time
to close, but pilots were starting uh
within a within like a couple months or
a quarter after that. Uh, you know,
obviously we had no sales people at the
company, so like the founding team was
just trying to run as many pilots as
possible. to see what would ultimately
work. At what point did you expand
beyond just the VS Code extension into
supporting all these other IDEs? That
was actually very very soon afterwards.
Um how did you think about that? Like
you know there's like one argument that
you could make which is like there's
lots of VS Code developers. You had a
tiny team. You could have made the
argument that I just focus on building a
great experience for VS Code. You'd only
captured a tiny percentage of the market
of all possible VS VS Code developers.
And that that's not what you did. you
expanded like horizontally very quickly
and built extensions for all those IDEs.
Why? I think maybe the fundamental
reason that that we thought was quite
critical is if we were going to work
with companies, companies have
developers that write in many languages.
Uh like for instance uh like you know a
company like JP Morgan Chase might have
over half of their developers writing in
Java and for those developers they are
going to use Jetrains and Intelligj.
Intelligj is over 70 to 80% of all Java
developers in the world currently use uh
Intelligj right now. So we would just
need to turn away a lot of companies
like a lot of companies would not be
able to use us as the de facto solution
like we'd be one of many solutions
inside the company. Um so because of
that we made the decision but luckily
because we made the decision early
enough it changed the architecture of
how we built the product out which is to
say we are not like building a separate
version of the product for every single
ID. We have a lot of shared
infrastructure that actually lives on a
per editor basis. So it's actually a
very very small amount of code that
actually needs to get written to make
sure we can support as many ids as
possible. Um, so this is one of those
things that an early decision that we
made ended up making it much easier to
make this transition. How about the
transition from Kodium to WinSurf? At
the time we, you know, now now we're
probably going to middle of 2023. We
start working with some very large
enterprises. Within the next year, like
the business has gotten well over sort
of eight figures in in in revenue um
just from these enterprises using the
product and we have this like free
individual product. But I think one of
the things about this industry that we
all kind of know is the space moves
really really fast and uh we basically
are always making bets on things that
are not working right actually most of
the bets we make in the company don't
work and I'm excited uh when I'm like
happy when we are when we're let's say
only 50% of the things we're doing are
actually working because I think when if
a 100% of the things we're doing uh are
working um I think like it's a very bad
sign for us because it's probably like
one of one of maybe three things. Um the
first thing it it it is is like hey
we're not trying hard enough. Uh right
that's that's probably what it means.
The second thing is we somehow have a
lot of hubris right and the hubris is
like we believe everything we do is
right even despite the facts that are
that are sort of on the ground. And then
um the the sort of third key piece is
here is we're not actually testing our
hypotheses in a way that like tells us
where the future is going. We're not
actually at the frontier of what the
capabilities and technology um
ultimately is. We believed actually in
the very beginning of last year that
agents were going to be extremely huge
and we had prototypes of this in the
beginning of last year and and they just
didn't work. But there were different
pieces we were building that we felt
were going to be important to making
agents work which is understanding large
code bases understanding the intent of
developers making edits on the codebase
really really quickly and we had all
these pieces. The thing we didn't have
is a model that was capable of calling
these tools efficiently enough. And then
obviously in the middle of last year
that completely changed with the advent
of like set um 35 right and with that we
basically said okay we now have these
agent capabilities but the ceiling of
what is we can show to our developers on
VS code was limited. We were not able to
provide a good enough experience and we
thought what was going to happen is
developers would spend way more time not
writing software but reviewing software
that the AI was going to put out. We are
I think a technology company at heart
and I you know I I think we are a we are
a product company but I think the
product serves the technology which is
to say we want to make the product as
good as possible to make it so that
people can experience the technology
right and we felt that we were you know
with VS code we were not able to do that
so the middle of last year we decided
hey like we need to actually go out and
actually have our own ID out there um so
that's what that's what triggered
actually creating winerf the way that
you did that was you forked VS code for
VS code was got a whole new set of
capabilities that you guys had to learn
like basically how to like develop on
this VS codebase that I'm sure is super
complicated. Yeah, we needed to figure
that out. Uh that was one once again
another thing where uh we ended up
shipping windsurf out in uh within uh
less than 3 months of starting the
project. Uh that's when we we shipped it
out across all operating systems. Wow.
And what what happened like was did it
like take off immediately or was it
unnoticed for for a long time? It took
off pretty quickly I would say. Um I
think the speed at which it took off
among early adopters was was quite high.
There were obviously some very rough
edges and this is like one of those
things where you know because of the
rough edges obviously people started
coming and leaving the platform fairly
quickly. But what we saw was like as we
improved the capabilities of the agent
as we improved the capabilities of the
passive experience even the passive tab
experience has made massive leaps um in
the last like couple months. We started
realizing that not only were people
talking about the product more and more
uh people were also staying on the
product uh more and more at a higher
rate. How many people worked on shipping
windsurf? And it was done in a period of
one or two months. Uh a couple months.
So yeah, like less than three months. Um
this was another I wouldn't say it's a
bet the company moment because it's not
a fundamentally different uh sort of
paradigm compared to like moving from a
GPU virtualization product to a to an
like a an AI code product. But yeah, it
was uh anyone that could work on it
needed to kind of like drop what they
were working on in the past and work on
it immediately. And at that time, how
how big uh were you guys? The
engineering team was probably still less
than 25 people. Wow. This is crazy.
Interestingly, our company actually from
an employee standpoint actually didn't
have that few people. We actually had a
fairly large go to market team because
it's in the AI space. One thing that's
like a little bit weird about our
company compared to most other companies
is we have a fairly large go to market
team. Like we were selling our product
to the largest Fortune 500 companies.
It's very hard to do that purely by
letting them swipe a credit card. Uh you
need a lot of support. you need to make
sure that the that the technology is
like getting adopted properly. Um, which
is very different than just give the
people the product and see it grow um
effectively. So from an engineering
standpoint, we've always run fairly
lean. Uh but because of the market
interest, we've always had a lot of
people in go to market actually. Who are
like sort of the ideal people to go into
that function? Is it you know really
good engineers who want to be forward
deployed? Yeah, we so we have two
components of it. We have account
executives. These are folks that um in
general we we try to find people that
are very curious and excited about the
capabilities. In fact, people that would
use windsurf in their free time because
they're they're providing the product to
leaders who also love software and
technology, right? So, if they're if
they're just completely just unaware of
the technology, they're not going to be
helpful. And then we also have these
deployed engineer uh like sort of roles
similar to what you said uh that get
their hands really dirty with the
technology and make sure that our
customers get the most value from the
from the technology. I mean the wild
thing is uh because everyone uses wind
surf it sounded like um you're having
even these AEES who are non-technical
become like just vibe coding champions.
Yeah. No, one of our biggest users of
Windsurf at the company is a is a
nontechnical person who leads u uh like
partnerships uh at the company. Uh he
has actually replaced buying a bunch of
sales tools uh inside the company. uh
and uh this is one of those things where
I think windsurf is giving power back to
the domain experts right in the past
what would happen in an organization is
he would need to talk to a product
manager who would talk to an engineer
who and the engineer would have a large
backlog because there this clearly
doesn't immediately make the product
better right so this has to be a lower
priority but now he is actually kind of
uh empowered to actually go and build
these apps does he have any programming
background at all interesting cuz that's
definitely one of the controversies on
Twitter at the moment is just like is
vibe can you actually vibe code unless
you know some amount of coding already.
Yeah. One of the things we do have is if
we do need to deploy one of these apps,
we have a person that actually focuses
on making sure that these apps are
secure and deployed. But the amount of
leverage that that person has is
ridiculous. Instead of him going out and
building all of these apps, the Vzero
could actually get built by by people
that are domain experts but
non-technical inside the company. With
the Kodium launch, you went head-on
against like Microsoft and GitHub and
like you know these incumb huge
incumbents. with the ID launch, you went
sort of head-on against cursor. It's
like the hot startup of the moment and
like um I know again how was how did you
all think about that internally? This
might be a weird thing about our
company, but our company just doesn't
have like like morale is not really
affected by what other companies do,
right? Uh it's not possible if uh like
our company has gone through a lot of
basically very turbulent times. the fact
that we needed to pivot at 10 uh 10 10
employees and just completely kill our
idea is like a normal thing for the
company and then second of all kind of
like the companies that are relevant in
our space has always been a fluctuating
uh set of companies like you know I I
really respect all the companies in our
space but yeah co-pilot if you were to
go to the beginning of 2023 everyone
would have thought GitHub copilot was
the was the product that everyone would
be would use and there was no point
building and in the middle uh kind of
Devon came out and like everyone was
like hey like Devon is going to solve
everything, right? Um, and and I'm sure
they're doing good work now. Uh, but and
then after that, obviously, Curser is is
doing a really great job. So, I think
what really matters to us most is are we
actually do we have a good long-term
strategy and are we executing in a way
where we're getting towards that
long-term strategy while being flexible
with the details, right? And as long as
we're doing that, I think we we have a
fighter's chance, right? And that's like
the way we've always Do you educate
yourself at all on the competitor's
products, though? Yeah. Yeah. I think we
don't want to put our heads in the sand
and kind of tell ourselves our product
is awesome. um and uh and and just kind
of because it's very easy to do that um
especially given the fact that before we
worked on Windsor the company was also
growing very very quickly from like a
revenue standpoint. What sort of
opinions did you have or what taste or
opinions did you have for the full IDE
um that was sort of maybe different to
cursor? I'm actually asking is curs is a
very well-liked product obviously and so
at a product level why are you like oh
yeah like actually we want to build it
this way. Yeah. No, I think it's a great
question. Uh so maybe the first point is
at the time actually when we started
working on windsurf all the products
were basically chat and this
autocomplete uh capability. I think
that's basically what uh GitHub Copel
was, what cursor was at the time. I
think we took a very opinionated stance
that we thought agents were were uh
where the technology was actually going.
We were the first agentic editor that
was out there. Um and uh I think the
biggest sort of takeaway was we didn't
believe in this kind of paradigm where
everyone would be at mentioning
everything, right? This almost reminded
us of like the anti pattern of what
Google and and these search engines were
before like Google improved their
product a lot which was kind of like
these landing pages that had like every
distinct kind of like bucket of things
you could search for. But Google came
out with this very clean search box.
Even Google at the time you would need
you would get better answers if you
wrote and or uh like site link. Um and
now it's gotten way better, right? And I
guess we had a belief that the the
software would get more and more easy to
build, right? And we would build from
that starting point when we saw all the
other players in the space making their
product so configurable in a way that we
thought was I think good for users now
for what the technology was but
something that wouldn't be unnecessary
down the line. So we invested in
capabilities like how do you deeply
understand the codebase to understand
the intent of the developer? How do you
how do you actually go out and uh and
and make changes in a way that's like
very quick um to the codebase. We took
the approach of hey instead of having
this readonly system where you tag
everything what happens if you could
make changes very quickly and that's why
like at the time we we were kind of the
first to do that now if you were to ask
like is that a very obvious decision now
I think it's very obvious now it looks
very obvious and this is where like one
of the things that I think is is true
for any startup is you have to keep
proving yourself right like every single
insight that we have is a depreciating
insight it is a very very depreciating
insight like technology the reason why
companies win um at any given point is
not like they had a tech they had a tech
insight
like one year ago, right? Actually, if a
company wins, um other than the fact
that they have, you know, a monopoly, uh
you know, it's it's a it's actually like
a compounding tech advantage that keeps
sort of existing over and over again.
And I think the example of this that I
find most most exciting is you look at a
company like Nvidia. If Nvidia doesn't
innovate in the next two years, AMD will
be on their case, right? And Nvidia will
not be able to make 60 70% gross margins
at that point, right? um even though
it's like one of the largest companies
in existence uh right now by basically
having good insights to start with
you're able to learn from the market and
maybe compound that advantage with time
and that's the only thing that that is
uh that could be persistent. It sounds
like a moat is uh you know we think of
it as a noun but it's actually a verb.
Yeah. Something that could change with
time right I also think for us and I
tell the company this if we're not
continuing to have insights and that's
why I'm completely okay with a lot of
our insights being wrong. um if we don't
continually have insights that we are
executing on we are just slowly dying um
that's like what's actually happening I
think the interesting thing is that is
easier now looking back and connecting
the dots on your journey how a lot of
these technology bets you took actually
did end up compounding what windsurf
ended up becoming right like it was
happen stance that you being really good
at GPU deployment VMware optimization
ended up being the thing to be really
good of you at being blazingly fast
autocomplete because it's faster than
other products Right. So that kind of
compounded there. There's the aspect of
you building all these uh plugins for
enterprises and being so good at reading
large code bases and you did something
that was contrarian. There was a lot of
products and we work with OC companies.
A lot of uh codegen tools use uh vector
databases because we work with a lot of
companies and that's was the standard
approach how a lot of folks were
building. But you guys did something
very different, right? Yeah. So, one of
the things that sort of uh I think got
really popular is this term rag got very
popular. You weren't anti-rag. Yeah. I
don't know if we're anti anti-rag. Rag
obviously makes sense. You do want to
retrieve some stuff and based on the
retrieval you want to generate some
stuff. So, I guess the idea is is
correct that you know everything is
retrieval augmented generation. But I
think what people got maybe a little too
opinionated about was like the way rag
is implemented. It has to be a vector
database that you go out and search. I
think a vector database is a tool in the
toolkit. Right? If you were to think
about what users ultimately want, they
want great answers and they want uh
great agents. That's what they actually
want. And how do you end up doing that?
You need to make sure that what's in the
context is as relevant as possible. So
what we ended up doing is having a
series of systems that enable us to pack
the context with the most relevant
snippets of code. And the way we
ultimately did that was it was a
combination of keyword search, rag,
abstract syntax tree parsing and then on
top of that using as you mentioned all
the GPU infrastructure we have to take
large chunks of the codebase and in real
time rank it right as the query is
coming in right and we found that that
is like the best way for us to find the
best context for the user. And the kind
of the motivation for this is because
people have kind of weird questions.
They might have a question for a large
codebase of upgrade all versions of of
uh of this API to this API. And if
embedding search only finds five of
them, it's not of the 10, it's not a
very useful a useful feature at that
point. So we needed to make sure the
precision recall was as high as
possible, which meant that we used a
series of technologies to actually get
to the get to the the best solution.
There's a bit of a thing going on with a
lot of AI startups getting built taking
too much of a intellectual shortcut with
what's what works for the problem domain
space but you took it from first
principle right so you build like a way
more complex system that did a parson
sing all this stuff which is like cool
yeah I think maybe one of the things
that I that is potentially interesting
to discuss there is is uh we started off
a lot of the companies started off
working on autonomous vehicles and the
reason why that's kind of important is
these are systems where you can't just
yolo these systems, which is to say you
build the software and then you kind of
like let it run. You need really good
evaluation. I think at the company we
don't strive for complexity. We strive
for what works. Uh and then the question
then is like why is the system so much
more complex now? It was because we
built really good evaluation systems.
Oh, interesting. How do the evals work?
Yeah, so the evals for code are actually
really cool. Uh basically the idea is
code you can leverage a property of code
which it can be run, right? uh and uh we
not only have real-time user data, we
can put that aside for now, but we can
take a lot of open source projects and
find I guess commits in these open
source projects uh with tests attached
to them. So you can imagine a lot of
cool things we can do based on that. You
can take the intent of a commit, delete
all the code that is not the unit test,
right? And then you can see, hey, are
you able to retrieve the parts where the
change needs to get made? Do you have a
good highle intent to make those
changes? And then after making the
changes, does the test pass? you can do
that task, you can mask the task. And by
masking the task, it's it's more like
more like the the Google task. And what
I mean by the Google task is it's trying
to predict your intent, which is to say,
let's say you only put in a third of the
change, but you don't get the intent.
Can you then fill out the rest to make
the test pass? So there's so many ways
you can slice this. And each of them,
you can break it down into so much
granularity. You can be like, what is my
retrieval accuracy? What is my intent
accuracy? What is my um what is my
passing? What is my test passing
accuracy? You can do that. And then now
you have a hill to climb. And I think
that's actually important before you add
a lot of complexity for any of these AI
apps. I think you need to like make a
rigorous hill that you can actually
climb, right? Otherwise, you're just
shooting in the dark, right? Why would
we add the ASG parsing if it's
unnecessary? Actually, it's awesome if
it was unnecessary. Um, right? I don't
want to add a lot of complex stuff to
our code. In fact, I want the I want the
simplest code that ends up doing the uh
having the most impact. So, the eval
really really critical for us to make a
lot of these investments at the company.
How much of the development that you do
is like basically driven by improving
the scores on the eval versus like
basically vibes based like you guys are
all using winerve yourself you're
getting feedback from users all the time
and then you have just like a sense that
this thing is going to work better and
then the eval are just sort of like a
check that you didn't screw up something
else it's a little bit of both but
obviously for some kinds of systems I
think eval are more important than vi
but like more easy than vibes uh just
because for the system that basically
takes a large chunk of the code chunks
it up and passes it to hundreds of GPUs
in parallel giving you a result in one
It's very hard to have an intuition of
like is this way better because that's a
very complex sort of retrieval question.
Um but on the other hand there are much
easier things that from a vibe
perspective are valuable. What if we
looked at the open files in a codebase?
This is actually harder thing to eval
because when you're evaling you don't
know what the user is doing in real
time. This is one of those cases where
having a product and market helps us a
lot right and we're able to take a lot
of user data on how people use the
product to actually actively make the
product much better. So that's maybe
starts with vibes and then after that
you can build evo right um so it's it's
a little bit of both basically I think a
lot of uh there's been a lot of chatter
on the internet about vibes code is only
for toy apps windsurf is actually being
used for real production large code
bases can you tell us about how the
power users use it for like more
hardcore engineering so this is an
interesting thing where a lot of us at
the company I I'm not saying that this
is this is common didn't get a
tremendous value from chatbt in the way
that probably a lot of the rest of the
world did. Um, and that's not because
Chajbt is not a useful product. I think
Chajbt is an incredibly useful product.
It's actually because a lot of them had
already used things like like Stack
Overflow at the time. And Stack Overflow
is a worse version than Chad GBT for the
kinds of questions you want, but that
was just a thing that they already knew
how to use, right? Um, and so they were
able to get away with not using or
relying on chat nearly as much. But
basically what happened is very recently
with agents, the agent is making larger
and larger scale changes with time. And
I think what developers now at our
company do is they have felt the hills
and valleys of this product which is to
say if you don't provide enough intent.
It actually goes out and changes way
more of the code than you actually need.
Right? Um and this is like a real
problem with with the with the tool
right now. But they understand the hills
and valleys and now the very first time
they have a task. They are putting it
into windsurf. They're not their first
thing is not to actually go out and type
in in the actual editor. It's to
actually put the intent and actually uh
and actually make those changes. Um and
uh they're doing kind of very
interesting things now like deploying
our our software uh to our servers
actually now gets done with the
workflows that are entirely built um
inside Windsurf. Uh so just a lot of
boilerplate and repetitive tasks have
been completely uh like sort of
eliminated inside our company. But the
reason why this is possible is kind of
because we're able to operate over a
codebase that has many millions of lines
of code uh really really effectively. So
if you were to give some tips to the
audience, how should a user that uses
windsurf properly provide this intent so
that the changes are more surgical?
Because what you're saying with the
agents creating all these broad changes,
I've seen that happen. But how how do
you get those precise changes? What do
you do? How do you how do you feed the
system? How do you become a shouted it
with all caps, right? Yeah. Um, no. So,
I I think this is one of those things
where uh I think you kind of need to
need to have a little bit of faith in
the system and let it kind of mess up a
little bit. Uh, which is which is kind
of scary because I think a lot of people
for the most part they will write off
these tools really quickly. Obviously,
no one at our company would ride off the
tool because they're building the tools
themselves. I think people's
expectations are very high and maybe
that's like the the main piece of
feedback I'd give which is that you know
our product actually for these larger
and larger changes it might make 90% of
the changes correctly but if 10% is
wrong people will just write off the
entire tool and I think at that point
actually probably the right thing to do
is either revert the change we have an
ability to actually revert the change or
just keep going and see where see where
it ultimately can go uh and and maybe
the the most important aspect is commit
your code like as frequently as possible
I think that maybe that's like the big
big sort of uh tip there which is that
uh you know you don't want to get in a
situation where you've made 20 changes
and on top of that made some changes
yourselves and you can't like revert it
and then you get like very frustrated at
the end of it and one thing I've
wondered like in that vein is whether we
need to change the way git works with
this AI
coding paradigm have you thought at all
about whether doing git commit all the
time is the right move or whether there
needs to be like a deeper infrastructure
change yeah I think we have so you One
of the things that we always think of is
in the future you're going to have many
many agents running in parallel on your
codebase. That has some some trade-offs,
right? If you have two agents that kind
of modify the same piece of code at the
same time, it's hard to actually know
what's going on. That's another thing is
that like it's hard to have multiple
branches checked out at the same time
with different agents working on them
independently. All the merge conflicts.
Oh god. Yeah, there's a lot of But hey,
like you know, that's how that's how
real software development works too.
When you have a lot of engineers that
operate on a codebase, they're all like
kind of mcking around with the codebase
at the same time. So that's not a very
unique thing. I think git is a great
tool. I think it's maybe a question of
like how how can you skin git to work in
a way that is that is uh that works for
this for this product surface. An
example is git has these things called
work trees which is like you can have
many work trees and versions of the
repository all in your all in the same
directory. Um and and you know perhaps
you can have many of these agents
working on different work trees. Um or
instead of exposing the branch concept
to you, you actually can maintain a
branch yourself that you can apply to
the to the main branch of the user. um
kind of repeatedly one of the things
that we think about at the company in
terms of why we think our agent is
really good is like we try to have a
unified timeline on everything that
happened. The unified timeline is not
just what the developer did but actually
what the developer did in addition to
what the agent did. So actually our
product if you end up doing things in
the editor if you end up doing things in
the terminal right all of those things
are captured and the intent is is
actually kind of tracked in such a way
where when you use the AI the AI knows
right in that situation. So, in some
ways, we'd like this thing where the
agent is not operating on a completely
different timeline, but it's like
something that's kind of getting merged
in um you know, at a fairly high
cadence. Um so, I think this is like an
open problem. I don't I don't think we
have like the exact right answer for
this. What are other things that you
envision changing about Winterf in the
future? How how is it going to evolve?
There's probably a lot of people that
think the vibe coding is kind of a kind
of a fad, but I think that's going to
get more and more capable with time. I
think, you know, whenever I hear someone
saying, "Hey, this is not going to work
for this complex use case." It's it's
like it feels like a lite saying
something, right? It's like if you look
at the way these these uh these AIs have
gotten better sort of year over year.
It's it's actually it's astonishing.
Like I'll give you an example of of
something that I held like kind of near
and dear to my heart which is you know
there's this math Olympiad called Amy
and I used to do that uh do that in in
high school. Um and you know I was very
excited about about how well I would do.
My high score was somewhere close to 14.
And uh and uh that's a very high score.
Yeah. But but the but the crazy thing is
that was one of those things that I
thought oh wow like the AI systems
they're they're not going to get
anywhere near um as good and beginning
of the year last year it was probably
like well under five maybe um and now
they're you know the average that open
out is like it's getting 14 and a half
to 15 right uh for O4 mini uh so it's
almost like you have to keep projecting
this out right it's going to get crazy
and basically every part of the software
development life cycle whether it be
writing code reviewing code testing code
debugging code designing code AI is
going to be adding 10 times the amount
of leverage very shortly. It's going to
happen like much much more quickly than
people imagine. Going back to your
current engineering team, I'm curious
like if they have all this time freed up
from you know not having to deal with
like version upgrades and you know
boring boiler plate stuff like what do
they spend the extra time on? One of the
things about our company and probably
every startup uh that that is building
in the space is the ceiling of where the
technology can go is so high. It's so
high. So it's it's actually that you
know if developers can spend less time
doing boiler plate they can spend more
time testing hypothesis for things that
they're not sure work right in some ways
engineering becomes a lot more of like a
research kind of uh kind of culture
right where you're testing hypothesis
really really quickly um and that has
some high cycle time attached to it
right you need to go out and implement
things you need to build the evaluation
you need to test it out with our users
but that's like the things that actually
make the product way better does that
mean you're going to hire a different
type of engineer going forward like
you're looking for different things
Yeah, I think for engineers that we
hire, we want to look for people with
really high agency that are willing to
be wrong uh and bold. But, you know,
weirdly, I don't know if that's that's
changed for a startup, right? Startup
should never be hiring people that uh
the reason why they're joining a company
is to to very quickly write like
boilerplate code, right? Because in some
sense, and I don't want like, you know,
this is not the goal, but a startup can
succeed even if they have extremely kind
of ugly code, right? That's not usually
the reason why a startup fails. Sounds
like my startup. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
That's not usually the reason why
startup fails. The reason why a startup
fails is they didn't build a product
that was differentially good uh for
their users. That's why they ultimately
failed. This is all true, but also like
in reality, you always need some sort of
like workh horses to just kind of get
certain things done. I feel like in the
old days this was like building Android
apps. Um it's like you hired someone to
do it because there were very few people
who would just be willing to do it.
Yeah. Like maybe in your vision for
engineering like you don't need those
like that's not actually a useful skill
to have in an organization anymore
because the AI is just like your
infinite workhorse. Is that fair? Yeah.
Maybe the the the sort of aspects of
software that are really niche that are
undesirable for a lot of people to do
except a handful of people. Those things
kind of get democratized a lot more
unless that has like a lot of depth
attached to it, right? At least for the
time being. Um, yeah, if something is
like, hey, like, you know, we need to
change a system to use a new version.
Um, and there was someone that deeply
always got in the weeds with version
changes. I don't think you have people
that are just focused on that, right,
inside companies. How about how you
interview people? Yeah, I think I think
we have a fairly rigorous and high
technical bar and that has a that's a
combination of we give interviews that
actually allow people to use the AI to
kind of solve a problem because we want
to validate if people like kind of hate
these tools or not. there are still some
developers that do and obviously if you
do we're probably the wrong company to
kind of work at but also at the same
time we do have sort of interviews in
person where uh kind of on site where we
don't give them the AI and we want to
see them think right it would be a bad
thing if ultimately when someone needs
to write a nested for loop they need to
go to chatbt right and and I'm not like
that's fundamentally because because uh
it just it just feels like that is a
good proxy for problem solving skills
and I think problem solving skills are
just at a high level still should go at
a premium that That is the valuable
skill that humans have. Yeah. A
challenge that a lot of companies we've
talked to have had that that we've even
had ourselves is that Windsurf has
gotten so good that if you give people
windsurf it's difficult to even come up
with an interview question that Windsurf
can't just oneshot where you know anyone
can do it because you literally just
copy and paste the question into
Windsorf and hit enter and so you're not
really evaluating anything at that
point. So I actually think that's true
and it's it's it's you're totally right.
There's very few problems now that
something like an O4 Mini is not able to
solve now. Um, right? I mean, if you
look at competitive programming, it's
just it's just in a league of its own
already at this point. The crazy thing
is interviews by nature are going to be
kind of isolated problems, right?
They're by nature because if the problem
actually required so much understanding
to do, you wouldn't be able to explain
the problem. So, that's like perfect for
the LMS where you give them an isolated
problem where you can test and run code
extremely quickly. So, yeah, you're
totally right. Like I think if you tell
if you only have algorithmic interviews
and you let people use the
AI, I don't know, you're not really
testing anything at that point. Does
that mean that you've gone away from
just algorithmic questions and you ask
different like much harder questions
that are actually well suited to being
able being able to use an AI? Yeah, we
we have questions obviously where that
are that are both system designy plus
algorithms algorithms related. But these
are questions that are fairly
open-ended, right? Uh there may not be a
correct answer. there are there are
trade-offs that you can ultimately make
and I think what we want to do is just
see how people think right given
different trade-offs and different
constraints right uh and and we're
trying to validate for like intellectual
curiosity right and if someone
ultimately says I don't know why why why
that's totally fine as long as like
they've gone to a depth that we feel um
kind of shows you kind of interest um
interest and like good problem solving
skills if that makes sense like you can
tell when someone is curious right and
wants to learn things it's like very
obvious the next thought after is which
might be counterintuitive. You're at the
forefront of building all these AI
coding tools. It hasn't affected at all
your hiring plans. On the contrary, you
actually need way more engineers to
execute. Tell us more about that. So, I
think I think that just boils down to I
think the problem has a very high
ceiling, right? There's so many more
things that we really want to do. The
mission of the company is to reduce the
time it takes to build technology and
apps by 99%. It's going to take a lot of
work to go out and do that. Now granted,
each person in our company is way more
productive than they were a year ago. Uh
but I think for us to go out and
accomplish that, I think it's, you know,
it's a herculan task. We need to start
targeting more of the development
experience. Right? Right now, we've
helped a lot with the code writing
process. Um and and maybe the the the
navigation of code process, but we have
not touched much on the on the design
process, on the deploying process, the
debugging process is fairly rudimentary
right now. There's just so many
different pieces. is if I was to look at
it like you know if you say you have 100
units of time you know we have an axe
we've cut off maybe like 40 or 50 in
that in that in that time but there's
just a lot more snippets that we need to
cut out basically at this point it does
feel like when I'm using Windsurf like I
am often the extremely slow bridge
between different pieces of technology
copying and pasting data back and forth
from my that's probably actually still a
large chunk of your time all the pieces
have gotten so fast that now it's like
the glue between them but like I'm the
glue but I'm like much slower
can I go off the reservation and ask a
weird question. Go for it. Okay. Uh, one
of the things that I mean, I think Pete
on our team, he just released a great
essay about, you know, prompting and you
should let users have access to system
prompts. The other thing that he came up
with that we've been using all at YC
internally is a new agent infrastructure
that has direct access, read access to
our system of record, our Postgress
database. And in the process of using
this, we're starting to realize like if
codegen gets a lot better, which it's,
you know, I based on this conversation,
I think we can count on that getting
like 10x 100x better from here. Uh what
if instead of you know building package
software, there's like just in time
software that the agent basically just
builds for you as you need it. Does that
change the nature of software and SAS?
And you know what happens to all of us
in Windsurf? I don't know. I think this
notion of just a developer is is
probably going to broaden out to what's
called a builder and uh I think everyone
is going to be a builder and they can
decide like you know how deep they want
to go and build things. uh maybe maybe
our current version of developers can go
deep enough that they can build more
complex things, right? Um in the in the
shorter term, but yeah, I think software
is going to be this very very democ
democratized thing, right? I I imagine a
future in which you know what actually
happens when you ask an AI assistant,
hey, build me something that like tracks
the amount of calories I have. Why would
you have a very custom app that goes out
and does this? It's probably something
that takes like all the inputs from your
AR glasses and everything and has a
custom piece of software that kind of
comes out and like an app that is there
and like it has tasks that go and tell
you uh you know are you on track with
with all the calories you're you're sort
of consuming here. Um and I think that's
a very very custom piece of software
that you have for yourself that you can
keep tweaking. I can imagine a future
like that where effectively everyone is
building but people don't know what
they're building as software. They just
they're kind of just building uh just
capabilities and technology that they
have for themselves. Do many people use
windsurf who don't know how to write
code at all? It's actually a large a
large number of our users. Yeah.
Interesting. Yeah. How did they end up
getting into windsurf? Like did they
work at some company where like some
programmer showed them how to use it?
Like I I I tend to think of windsurf as
targeting more like the professional
developer market that's like using this
as a new superpower versus the like
non-technical user market that's doing
like what Gary was talking about. We
were shocked by this too because we were
like, "Hey, our product is an ID, but
there's actually a non-trivial chunk of
our developers that have never opened
the editor up and they just, you know,
our agent is called Cascade, right? And
uh just live in Cascade. We have browser
preview, so they just open up the
browser preview. They can click on
things and and sort of uh make changes.
The benefit is because because we kind
of understand the code when they come
back to the repository and the code has
actually gotten like quite gnarly. we're
actually able to pick up from where the
developer left off or the the the the
kind of builder left off and and keep
going from where they were. Um I will
say we have not optimized tremendously
for that use case. But it's actually
kind of crazy how how how much is
actually happening there? Do you think
in the long term that this ends up being
one product that targets like both of
these audiences or do you think actually
there's like different products for
different audiences? There's like a wind
surf which is like focused on like
serious developers who want to see the
code and be in the details and then
there's maybe other products for for
folks who are totally nontechnical who
don't who don't even want to see the
code. I don't know what the long term is
going to look like. Something tells me
it's going to become more unified. But
one of the things that I will just say
is like as a startup for us even though
we do have you know like a a good number
of people there's a limit to what we can
focus on internally as well. Uh so for
us like we're not going to be focused on
how do we build the best possible
experience for uh the developer as well
as build the experience where we have so
many things for the the non-developer.
But I I have to imagine that this idea
of building technology if you as you get
better and better at understanding code
um you're going to be able to deliver a
great experience for non-developers um
as well. But I don't know what the path
dependence is. I assume like a bunch of
companies in the space will go from
non-developers to then supporting an
ability to edit the code, right? And I
think we're starting to see this already
where you know the the lines are sort of
getting blurred right now. You probably
care about it for your evals at least.
Yeah. No, you need to you need to care
about it for your evals. That maybe
that's like the hard part for me that to
to imagine for the pure non-developer
product. What is the hill you're
climbing if you're not like kind of
understanding the code? How do you know
your product is getting better and
better? Um is like an open question. Are
you completely relying on the base
models getting better, which is fine,
but then you should imagine then your
product is an extremely light layer on
top of the base model, which is a scary
place to be, right? That means you're
going to get competed across all
different axis. How do you think about
that in general? I guess like the
something we've talked about a lot on
this podcast is just the GBT rapper meme
um has completely gone away. I feel um
though every big release from one of the
labs sort of brings it back a little bit
and everyone's a little bit scared that
like you know open AI is just going to
eat everything. Um how do you think
about that? I think the way we I I think
about this is like yeah the company as I
mentioned before it's a moving goalpost
which is to say today if we're
generating sort of 80 90% of all
committed software uh yeah I think I
think when the new model comes out uh
we're going to need to up our game. We
can't just be at the same same stage.
maybe we need to be generating 95% of
all committed code and I think our
opportunity is the gap between where the
foundation model is and what the what
what 100% is right and as long as we can
continue to deliver an experience where
there is a gap between the two which I
think there is as long as there's any
human in the loop at all um in the
experience uh there's a gap we'll be
able to go out and build things but that
is a constantly transforming sort of uh
goalpost for us right so you can imagine
when a new model comes out maybe the
baseline on what the foundation model by
itself provides has doubled the alpha we
provide on top of what the base model
provides needs to double as well. It
feels very like for me the reason why
this is not the most concerning is let's
suppose that you were to take the
foundation model and it's providing 90%.
It's reducing the time it takes by 90%.
That actually means if we can deliver
one or two% more percentage points,
that's a 20% gain on top of what the new
baseline is, right? Like I guess 90 if
90 becomes 92 or 93. Um, which which
which is still very very valuable,
right? At that point because effectively
the 90 becomes the new baseline uh for
everyone. So I I think basically the way
we sort of operate is how can we provide
as much additional value as possible and
as long as we have our eye on that I
think we're going to we're going to do
fine. What advice would you have for our
startups that are working in the like AI
coding space? you have a ton of them.
What are what are the opportunities that
like you think are going to be open to
new startups? I've seen a lot of things
that I I think could be like
particularly interesting. I I don't
think any of these technologies we've
really adopted, but there's so many
different pieces of how people build
software and uh so and I'm not going to
say niche, but there are so many
different types of workloads out there.
I've not really seen a lot of startups
in the space that are just like we do
this one thing really really well. Um,
like I'll give you an example. Like we
do these kind of like Java migrations
really really well. Crazy enough, if you
look at this category, the amount that
people spend on this is probably maybe
billions if not tens of billions of
dollars doing these migrations every
year. It's a it's a massive category.
Um, that's an example. Migrations from
what to what? So example, this is like
actually kind of crazy. JVM 7 to eight
or something JVM Rails versions even
even more than that actually. It's like
a lot of a lot of companies write cobalt
have cobalt and crazy enough most of the
IRS software is written in cobalt.
Apparently in the early 2000s they try
to migrate from cobalt to Java. I think
it was a five plus billion dollar
project. Uh surprise surprise it didn't
happen. You think they could oneshot it
now? I don't I don't know if they can
oneshot it but I'm just kidding. But uh
but no but it's imagine imagine if you
could do those tasks very well. It's
such an economically valuable sort of
task. I think we obviously don't have
the ability to focus on these kinds of
things inside the company. That's a very
exciting space if you could do a really
good job there. The second key piece is
there are so many things that developers
do that are also not making the product
better uh but important like automatic
resolution of like you know kind of uh
alerts and and and uh and bugs in the in
in software. Um that's also a huge huge
amount of amount of spend um out there
and I'd be curious to see like what a
best-in-class product in that category
actually looks like. I'm sure someone
that if they got truly in the weeds on
that, they could build an awesome
product. Um, but but I think I I've not
heard of one that is like tremendously
taken off. I think those are actually
both really great insights. And one
thing I like about them is that there's
like it's not just an opportunity for
like two startups. Like each one of
those is like a bucket that could have
like a hundred large companies in. We
actually do have a company from from S21
called Bloop that does these Cobalt to
Java migrations with with agents. That's
awesome. It's a gnarly problem. It's a
very gnarly problem, but it's if you
were to talk to any company that has
existed for over 30 years, this is
probably something that is costing them
hundreds of millions a year. So,
reflecting on this journey, I mean,
we're all really thankful for you
creating Windsurf. It's uh you
supercharging all of society right now.
Uh what would you say to the person who
you know basically the you from 5 years
ago before you started this whole thing?
The biggest thing I would say is change
your mind much much faster than you
believe is reasonable. Right? It's very
easy to kind of fall in love with your
ideas um over and over again and you do
need to otherwise you won't really do
anything uh but but pivot as quickly as
possible and treat pivots as a badge of
honor. Most people don't have the
courage to change their mind on things
and they would rather kind of fail doing
the thing that they told everyone they
were doing than uh change their mind uh
take a bold step and succeed. Vun, thank
you so much for joining us today. We'll
catch you guys next time.
[Music]