Title: Adora Cheung - How to Set KPIs and Goals
Video ID: lL6GdUHIBsM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lL6GdUHIBsM
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2019-08-01T13:21:19Z
Duration: PT23M31S
Views: 200847
Likes: 3523
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, startup school
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 631

Description:
YC Partner Adora Cheung covers the importance of defining and tracking KPIs to understand how effectively your startup is reaching your goals.  

Transcript and lecture slides here: https://www.ycombinator.com/library/6j-how-to-set-kpis-and-goals-sus-2019

This lecture is part of YC's Startup School, a free online program and global community of founders. Register and join the community at https://www.startupschool.org/

Timestamps
00:00 What is a Key Performance Indicator (KPI)?
00:39 Why do KP

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

All right. So, I am going to be talking
about setting your KPIs and goals for
early stage startups. So, I'm going to
be pretty pedantic in this lecture and
the reason why is doing this correctly
is a necessary condition for starting a
successful or building a successful
startup. Um, so the acronym KPI stands
for key performance indicator. Um, if
you Google around for it, there are
actually many definitions of what this
actually means. But for the purpose of
today, for this context, I'm going to
define it as a set of quantitative
metrics that uh indicate how healthy
your business is doing. So, this is
important because obviously you should
know uh what state your business is in
at all times. Um, so setting the right
KPIs and goals will objectively tell you
if you're doing well, just okay, or bad.
Um, so nothing keeps you more grounded,
humbled, and realistic about where you
are than a bunch of numbers. Because if
you interpret those numbers correctly,
they don't lie. Um, it'll also act as a
feedback mechanism for whether your
current strategy like user acquisition,
building new feature, launching new
features, and so on and so forth, um,
are actually working. So if you do
something and things go up, that's
probably good. If you do something and
some things go down, that's probably
bad. Um, and it will and it will not
only help you prioritize your time, but
also uh course correct. So, it follows
if you do this incorrectly, if you set
your KPIs and goals incorrectly, you can
direct your startup into a bunch of
circles or if you do it for too long,
it'll on onto the wrong path, it'll lead
to its unnecessary demise. So, what are
the right KPIs to set? I'm going to
break this down into two pieces. Primary
metric and secondary metrics. uh and
most of today is going to be focused on
the primary metric.
So every week in startup school we've
asked you in the software to fill out uh
to define your primary metric and then
update its current uh value. By
definition, you can only pick one um one
primary metric and it's the metric if
you if you had to you'd be willing to
bet the whole company on. So why just
one metric? Uh it's a way to focus and
keep things very simple. If there's a
way to get 90% of the job done with just
one variable, that's better than having
a bunch of variables that gets let's say
91% of the job done. Um, in this case,
the job to get done is quickly
determining how well your startup is
doing. So, what are the characteristics
of a good primary metric? There are four
of them. Uh, one uh so your primary
metric should quantify how much value
you're delivering to your customer. That
is you obviously want to build something
that people want. Now, how much do they
actually want it? And users often
indicate the value through either
training uh you through money or time.
So, revenue is always the best metric. I
pay you $100 to use your product, your
software. I must at least value that
$100.
um active users uh using the product
once a week or uh once a day we call
that weekly active user or daily active
user um is a weaker but another uh good
decent indication of whether you're
delivering value or not. The second one
here is it your primary metric must
capture whether your product has
recurring or enduring value to your user
or it should anyway. Uh so for example
in a SAS tool most SAS tools use MR
monthly recurring revenue um as their
primary metric. I commit to forking over
a hundred bucks a month continuously
every month uh because your product
demonstrates to me every month um that
has value to me. Uh another example is
if you're building an online digital
daily newspaper then obviously DAU daily
active user is a good one because I
expect you I expect to be delivering
content to you that is valuable to you
every single day. So hopefully you'll
come back every day. The third one here
is your primary metric should be a
lagging indicator for success. So a
common trap that founders do to trick
themselves is by picking a primary
metric. Let's say something like email
signups. Um because one, it's easy to
move. Um but while it may eventually
influence revenue or actual usage, it
actually doesn't represent real value
the best. Um so the best indication is
when the value has already been
delivered has already occurred. Uh so
when someone has already forked over
their time or money than to use it then
that is what a laging that's a
definition of what a l lagging indicator
is. Um so if revenue increases it's
because more customers have already paid
for the product's value um versus a
potential customer who came to your site
gave you an email and maybe they'll sign
up one day or maybe they'll use your
product one day um to buy something. And
lastly, uh your primary metric should be
usable as a feedback mechanism. Uh that
is it helps you prioritize strategies
and make decisions quickly. Uh in a
startup, one of the key things to be to
being successful and getting past um
product market fit stage is to iterate
very fast, right? So while you want it
to be a lagging indicator, you also
don't want it to lag too much. So for
example, a lot of people pick MAU,
monthly active user. Um but this is but
but uh this is usually not a great
metric because it takes time to
understand the impact of movement. Um
especially in a startup this early as in
your startup. Um and so many things can
happen within a month. Um and also
another reason why I don't like MAU
generally is because if your user only
comes back once a month, they only value
something that you're building once a
month, I really question actually if
you're solving a real problem.
All right. So you may have guessed from
me talking about these four charact
characteristics of a primary metric that
there are really two primary metrics to
pick from. So one is either revenue or
active users. Ideally you're picking
revenue because nothing tells you more
about delivering real value than people
forking over handing over real
hard-earned dollars to you. Um and even
better is picking revenue that people
keep giving you over and over over again
like monthly recurring revenue MR. It's
the best test for whether people really
want what you're making. So, um, that
being said, some people do pick revenue,
but a common trap they fall into is that
they don't actually get paid. Um, and
usually I hear something to the variant
of, "Oh, I'm going to get these I have
these 10,00 users not paying me
anything. Um, I just want to get their
feedback and see how they're using the
product and make it a little bit better
and then eventually um I'll get them to
pay or the next 10,00 users I'll get
them to pay." Um, that's a trap because
free users will give you different types
of feedback than users who are actually
paying you. Um, paid users are just more
serious about the product and hopefully
will be more serious about giving you
feedback. Um, so I urge you to just get
paid.
All right. So, what are reasons why? So,
Kevin in an early lecture said 99% of
you should actually use revenue as your
primary metric. So what are reasons why
you should um consider active users? So
one main one is because you because
building a large audience is actually is
actually a prerequisite to monetization.
So an example of this is if your
business model is advertising based like
a Facebook or Google then yeah you need
millions and millions of users coming
back to your site every day uh before
you can actually get brands and um
people to buy ads. Uh and so in this
case, active users is actually a
reasonable proxy for revenue because
eventually when your startup starts
making money, it's usually just revenue
is just a multiple of your active users.
Another reason is also um but much much
more much more rare is if you have very
strong network effects. that is if
you're like a marketplace that requires
tons of users to just get the flywheel
going and grow, then maybe that's a
reason for you to focus on active users
today versus uh revenue and then just do
revenue later down the road. Um now that
being said, if you're using active users
as a metric, it's important that you
define user appropriately.
I hear often I ask, okay, how many users
do or what's your primary metric? Uh
active users, how many users do you
have? I have a 100 users. What does
users mean in that situation? Sometimes
to people it means 100 users that just
signed up and gave you an email.
Sometimes it means 100 users that signed
up and started using your product and
come back every day for about 10 minutes
a day, which is by far much better than
just people just like daddling on your
site, right? So, you really need to get
that definition correctly and don't
trick yourself by just saying users and
get having a really easy definition of
users. Um
uh another uh another example of users
where it's not exactly users is if
you're in a marketplace and there are
two types of customers or two types of
users. So a good example is Airbnb. Who
are your two users? You have not just
the guests, but you also have the hosts.
So what are you to do? How do you how do
you pick just one? Well, you pick a
value that actually represents um them
both getting value. So in Airb's case,
it would be nights booked, right?
Another example is Uber. So who your two
users there? You have riders and you
have drivers. And so an example of a
primary metric you could pick there is
weekly trips. Okay. All right. So uh
there are always exceptions to the rules
and there are there is one exception in
which your primary metric is neither
revenue or active users
and that is if you run a biotech a hard
techch business and you're still trying
to figure out whether the science or
tech is actually going to work. Um can
you actually build a product? Um um and
another definition of this is uh for a
biotech card deck business is it it
often takes a lot of time and money to
get your first product to market. Um so
what's a founder to do especially you
have little little funding. Uh so
there's two answers to this. One is if
there are no regulatory issues to doing
sales per product, you should actually
do the same as everyone else. It should
be most likely revenue. Um your primary
metric should be revenue in the form of
paid contracts, LOIs,
PC's, proof of contracts, um proof that
if you build it, they will actually
come. Now, if you are in a space with
regulatory issues, meaning you can't
sell it at all, um without having to go
through like FDA or some kind of body
like that, then your product primary
metric is actually less quantitative per
se, uh and more of a binary thing. So
it's about figuring out the technical
milestones that you uh that you need to
demonstrate to mitigate the risk of
whether the drug or tech is working. So
if you have to think about experience to
prove this out, um you can ask a
question like what are the minimal
things I need to do to truly answer the
question of whether this works or not.
So if you have if you fall into this
category, I urge you to actually just go
watch these two lectures. Uh they're
actually firesat chat chats I did uh
last startup school with Elizabeth and
Eric. Um Elizabeth is an expert in
biotech and Eric is an expert in
hard-cheek and they actually go through
deep deep deep dive into how do you
think about your goals and how do you
think about your milestones and what
metrics to actually track. All right. So
people have referred to the primary
metric as a northstar metric and I
actually don't like the term northstar
because it kind of uh people have
interpreted as something you just focus
on this one metric and then ignore
everything else. Um but like I said
earlier there's no metric that actually
tells the story that tells 100% of the
story. Maybe 90% but not 100%. And so
sometimes founders fool themselves by
literally only tracking their primary
metric and nothing else. Um so a common
example is just looking at user growth
and just ignoring retention completely.
But retention is obviously just as
important to user growth as it is as is
uh new user acquisition.
So one suggestion I have is to uh select
a set of three to five other metrics
secondary metrics to pair with your
primary metric. This gives you a good
360deree overview um of the health of
your company. So there are a ton to
choose from. So many to choose from. Uh
what you choose is actually very
dependent on your business. Uh next week
we're going to have two lectures um on
these sorts of metrics for consumer.
I'll be giving one on consumer startups
and another YC partner I knew will be
giving one on B2B companies. Um and so
we'll deep dive into uh metrics these
metrics uh next week.
Uh the key here though is just picking a
few, right? Uh at most five, three to
five, closer to probably three. Um you
don't want to boil the ocean and pick
everything. It's totally fine to track
all this kind of stuff. Um but it's
really not a good idea to optimize too
many at once. You'll really just suffer
from analysis paralysis.
All right. So a common question I have
when I say you should what is your
primary metric? You should set one is,
well, what if I haven't launched yet?
Well, obviously metrics don't matter if
you don't know what the problem you're
solving is. You don't even know who your
customer is yet. You should really just
focus on that first. Um, you'd be really
putting the cart before the horse by
worrying too much about this kind of
stuff. That said, once you get to the
point where you're building the product,
it's really a good idea to get this
down, even if you haven't launched yet.
Um, by at least defining your primary
metric, you'll be able to think about
who your user really is. uh you get
everyone on the same page on who you're
targeting. And even you can hypothe use
the metrics and goals to hypothesize on
how you might get your first few users.
And trust me, nothing is more motivating
than staring down the barrel of zero
users and zero dollars of revenue for
weeks on end. You're going to get very
antsy about launching um very quickly.
And that's the that's actually the
effect you want.
All right. So, I'm going to go into how
do you set goals for your primary metric
for for your KPIs. So, Paul Graham
actually wrote a great essay a few years
ago called Startup Equals Growth. And he
explains why a startup should focus on
growth. And I really urge you to go read
it. Um, and this section of this lecture
draws a lot of insights from it. The
goal of your startup is to grow your
primary metric. Uh, by doing this, it
does two things. Uh, it proves that
you're making something lots of people
want. Um, and second, it proves you're
making something that has a possibility
of reaching and serving all those
people. Each week, your goal should
actually be to set a weekly uh growth
rate. Now, we use weekly increments
because startups early on need frequent
feedback uh from their users to tweak
what they're doing, but also we use
weekly growth rate because it helps to
divide up the progress you need into
doable chunks. So, say your goal in a
couple months is to get 10,000 daily
active users, which requires growing new
users, let's say 10% week overw week.
Uh, to grow 10% this week, uh, may
amount to actually just getting a 100
new users. Uh, which is a different
problem to solve than trying to get
10,000 new users, right? Uh, you should
be focusing on what's directly ahead of
you in that week. Do things that don't
scale today if that's actually the best
way to get those 100 users. uh and don't
worry about the eventual goal of 10,000
too soon. So naturally the next question
is how fast should a bike what what
should this uh rate actually be? Well
there's no good formula there's no right
formula for this but one angle that we
could tackle it from is looking at good
startups and seeing how fast they were
growing in the beginning stages of their
life. So I actually went back and I
looked at the good startups who pitched
in recent YC demo days. Uh so these if
you think about these startups they were
uh three months prior they were all in
the phase that you are probably in today
and it turns out the growth rates ranged
anywhere from 20 to 200% month over
month but clustered more closely to 20
to 50% month over month which if you
back up back it out it amounts to about
5 to 10% week overw week. Um and so this
chart uh just to explain it real quickly
uh the left hand column is the weekly
growth rate and then these are the
equivalents that you need to grow by
month and then what the multiple is by
year.
So uh this is actually in line if you
read that essay PG wrote a few years ago
which he said a good growth rate during
YC is 5 to 10 5 to 7% a week. If you can
hit 10% a week you're doing
exceptionally well. And so this is the
green area which we've seen consistently
actually um in the recent batches of YC.
Um so growth is a little hard to gro but
if you look at this chart you'll see
that how small variations in weekly
growth rates can make a huge difference
on the monthly and yearly time horizon.
Uh you'll also get the sense that to get
big fast, it actually seems doable if
you have something people want. Um, on
the flip side, if you can only manage 1%
uh weekly growth, it's a sign you
haven't figured out things yet. It
doesn't mean that you have a horrible
business. You can run a great small
profitable business growing 1%
week-over- week, but it's not a good
sign that you have a startup with a
billion dollar potential. So, you should
think about that trade-off there and
what you really want out of your
business uh if you're growing uh at that
rate.
Um, that said, the main thing uh in
terms of setting your goals is is to
think for yourself. uh is to define your
own goal based on not what others are
doing but what you think is ambitious
and achievable based on the product
you're building. So you know your users
and business better than everyone else.
What does success look like like for you
and what does being on track look like
to you? So here are some general
guidelines uh when defining a goal.
All right. First, um, if you're solving
a real problem in a large market, then
that means there's a ton of latent
demand out there, uh, people would use
of just about anything to use your
product, even if it's halfbroken,
halfbaked, or just solves a bit of their
problem, which means that startups
usually have fast initial growth.
Um, that said, where you are today
matters. So if you have a ton of users
and a ton of revenue, you will probably
know that at that volume, as a volume
increases, what you need every week to
grow uh gets harder over time. So again,
most startups, they grow very quickly
and then over some time they kind of uh
the growth rate kind of slows down a
little bit. The second one is time to
sell. So when you trying to set your
goal, you need to consider how long it
takes to acquire a user and make a sale.
So for a consumer startup, generally you
have an app or a website. I show up to
it. I look at it, I see if I want it,
and then if I do, bam, I buy it or I
sign up for it. And so, it's
instantaneous. For an enterprise startup
where you're actually probably going
through some red tape, um, you have a
bunch of stakeholders you have to deal
with. Um, and it like you you can show
up to the company and they're not going
to be even buy it right away because
you're maybe not even talking to the
right person. So, it might take some
months to actually uh get your first
sale. So, you'll have to take that in
account. uh over time this time to scale
uh uh should actually decrease over
time. Like good enterprise startups uh
that time to scale goes from months to
hopefully days. Um uh if not hours. Uh
and so it shouldn't impact your growth
rate in the future, but in the near term
it actually might. Uh third is you
really want to focus on organic versus
paid users or paid growth in the
beginning. Organic means they discover
it through word of mouth. Um basically
you're not paying for the user. uh they
kind of just uh may be searching for it
and using it themselves. I think in the
early days using paid users is actually
cheating growth um and you should avoid
it as much as possible. And finally,
because you're a startup, startups
equals growth. You should focus on
exponential goals and not linear goals.
All right. So, uh in terms of picking
the goals, I think there's two ways to
do it. Uh one, you can just pick a
growth rate. Uh, and then pick a growth
rate that you can you think you can hit.
And if you hit it, great. You probably
should change it. If you're hitting it
consistently, um, to something higher.
Uh, if you don't, if you're not hitting
it, then you should be a little bit
alarmed and you should figure out why.
Another way to do it is time box an
absolute goal. So, what I mean by for
that is say for for the purpose of
startup school, at the end of startup
school, how many active users or how
much revenue do you want to have? How
what would what would it look like? what
would something meaningful look like at
the end of 10 weeks? Then go back out
your weekly growth rate and then go week
to week figuring out the obstacles and
how you should um hit that hit that
weekly goal. Um in the beginning, if
you're somewhere close to zero users
today, uh often you'll get something
higher if you higher if you do this
method than 5 to 7% week-over- week.
Tracking progress. So metrics and goals
obviously don't mean anything if you
don't leverage them. Use these as a
motivational tool. So, one way to do
this is get a piece of paper, draw a
forward-looking graph of what the growth
you want to hit in the next 10 weeks.
Print it out and put it everywhere. Put
on top of your desk, put on the bathroom
mirror, put on the fridge, um, and
update once and once once a week. This
is in fact what the Airbnb founders did
in the beginning. And if they hit the
numbers, great. Uh, if they did not,
then that's all they would talk about.
And so, I would follow something to like
this. Now, you want to leverage your
prior metric and goal to help you
prioritize your time week over week. So,
week to week, you should be stackranking
all the ideas you have of how to grow it
and make a good guess on what's going to
have the biggest impact for the next
week to meeting your goal and then
choose accordingly.
Occasionally, you won't hit your goal
for the week. Uh we can dream that our
growth will be flawless and look like
this, but in reality, in the beginning,
it always looks something like this.
It's okay if you don't hit your goal one
or even two weeks in a row as long as
you understand why. You should be always
asking yourself, what is the biggest
obstacle in my way of hitting my weekly
target? How do I overcome this? And be
obsessive of of this. Uh if you don't
know the answer, then the answer is go
talk to more users. Uh and uh don't spin
in circles um trying to figure it out
yourself. A good startup idea will keep
growing at some point. So, not hitting
uh your weekly targets week on end uh
will maybe just help inform you you're
not working on the right thing or even
the right idea. Finally, to end, as you
already know, our startup school
software asks you to set your primary
metric and goals. Uh it is important to
be honest about where you are. Um and
one one of the best ways to do that is
to fill this out every week. We've given
you the software to do this very easily.
It is not for us, I promise you. uh it
is for you to use uh and get in the
habit of doing it. Uh we hope you fill
this out throughout the course and
moving forward even after the course you
keep doing it. It's a good habit to
have. Um I guarantee you if you're not
already doing this, just adding this one
simple thing to your workflow is going
to help you and change things
dramatically.
All right, that's it. Uh we'll next have
Ilia from Segment. Thanks,