Title: The Finance Startup Bringing Agentic AI to Wall Street
Video ID: lqokpIme47A
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lqokpIme47A
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-07-31T14:01:14Z
Duration: PT46M16S
Views: 60473
Likes: 936
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1441

Description:
Brothers Chaz and Arnie Englander started Model ML after building and selling two YC companies. 

What began as a tool to help them analyze deals has grown into a full AI-powered workspace purpose-built for financial services, empowering firms to create automations and workflows that reflect exactly how their teams operate. And it's already being used by 10% of the world's top investment banks and private equity firms to automate everything from client-ready PowerPoint decks to deep-dive researc

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

In the last seven days, we've signed the
same number of contracts as we signed in
the whole of Q4. There is clear tangible
value being driven by these products,
and it's only going to get better and
quickly.
>> Ultimately, you've got to be very
passionate about what you're building.
You've got to have that perseverance.
And if that sounds good to you, then
then build a startup. If something
logically makes sense, you should
probably continue doing that thing,
right? And not let anything stop you.
And I think like the consistency that
we've noticed of founders that we've
some of that we've invested in or work
with is like the ones that kind of do
that and really persevere tend to win.
[Music]
Today we're here with Arie and Chaz
Englander. Uh they are the founders of
Model ML uh from Winter 24. Uh prior to
Model ML they started two other YC
companies that both were successful and
sold, Fancy and Fat Llama. And this is
probably the first time I've worked with
a company where both of the founders had
had a previous successful uh YC company
before. So I'm super excited to welcome
Chassen Arie here to YC. Uh welcome
back.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> Thanks very much.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> Tell us what you guys are building.
>> So Monal is an AI workspace for
financial services. So that's our
oneliner. What that actually means in
practice is we've so we built a
workspace that's akin to kind of the
office suite. our own version of Word,
PowerPoint, and Excel with the major
difference that it's built on top of an
agentic system that kind of mirrors what
a human has access to at the firms we
work with. So quite specifically, if
you're a human at firm X, right, you
will have access to your files and
folder systems, your emails, your CRM,
any data vendors that you might used and
pay for, uh, real-time publicly
available information, public filings,
your internal custom data sets, etc.
Right? So then we kind of build this, we
call it a cognitive architecture. It's a
fancy word of saying, you know, kind of
like a brain that mimics what you have
access to digitally digitally. um uh and
we overlay that with our user interface.
Um the general idea being well, if you
had an Excel spreadsheet that was
already connected into those data
sources, you'd probably spend less time
going and gathering information and
analyzing it.
>> I can tell that you guys are excited
about how things are going right now.
Would you put some words on how how
things are going?
>> Vertical.
>> Uh look, I mean, in the last seven days,
we've signed the same number of
contracts as we signed in the whole of
Q4.
>> Wow. And
>> congratulations. Thanks very much. And I
think it's it's really just the turning
point I think in the sector whereas as
we keep saying it's like there is clear
um tangible value being driven by these
products and it's only going to get
better and quickly.
>> What were people using MML using before?
What were their tools that they were
using in the daily daily work?
>> So they would have their um data sets uh
and then they would they would spend a
lot of time in the office suite or in
Outlook, right? Um, and you know what
that meant was, you know, a lot of that
process is super manual and super
repetitive. You know, I think, you know,
the key here is we're definitely not
saying that humans should like never do
these tasks, but you know, if you're
organizing logos in a PowerPoint
presentation and you've done that
hundreds of times before,
>> uh, and you're a very well educated, you
know, analyst or associate, it's
probably not a great use of your time,
>> right? And I remember from I think maybe
from our interview or sometime on the
first office hour you had a unique story
on why you wanted to solve this problem.
Remember what that was?
>> Yeah. So we um so we sold our first two
companies and um after we sold our
second company we did a bunch of kind of
investing ourselves which I think on the
whole we were pretty bad at. But we
became very interested in automating as
much of those processes as you possibly
could, right? And so it it started
whereby we we literally were um when we
would receive an opportunity via email
and having sold a company you kind of
tend to receive a bunch of opportunities
every day. It would then enter into this
like a genensic system that to be honest
we were just building for fun um and
kind of produce like a one pager for us.
But the interesting thing about the one
pager is whilst you know we received
some information via email what was in
the one page probably 90% of that
information was unrelated to what we
would have received via email. In other
words, you know, let's say we got an
opportunity to invest in a startup,
right? This thing would go off and look
at their LinkedIn and their background
and then look at like comparable
companies on Crunchb or S&P and so on
and kind of produce this one pager that
you would probably go and do as a human
as your first port of call, you know,
little things like if it was a consumer
company, it would go and look at review
websites just as an example. Um and
yeah, we thought it was pretty cool and
then people became interested in it and
then we kind of agreed that we were
quite bad investors and uh okay at
building stuff. Um and that's how it
started
>> and that then turned into you selling
this product or new version of that
product to the top financial firms in
the world basically.
>> Yeah. So um you know we can say now that
we're about 10% of the largest private
equity firms and investment banks in the
world use our product.
um you know we have other customers
asset managers sovereign wealth funds um
you know a bunch of venture firms but
yeah it's pretty it's been pretty
exciting
>> and how would they do how would they
doing their work before before you start
using model ML
>> so as crazy as it sounds now right so
let me use an example whereby
um let's say you're you're tracking a
public company right and every quarter
or every time there's a release um maybe
as part of your job as an analyst or
associate you'll go to uh the release
the filings and you'll put together
what's called an earning summary. So
think about it like a beautifully
present like a slide effectively a
single slide with a bunch of information
but all that information is coming from
the same piece of information. So for
example you might always get certain
numbers from the filing itself. You
might get other numbers like consensus
or similar from a fact set and so on and
they're put into these slides
>> and these things take ages. We're
talking probably like days you company
just to pull together these slides,
right? because everything has to be
linked back to source and checked and so
on. And what you can do in model is so
think of model as you know being used as
the building blocks for this. So you
have an Excel spreadsheet that's already
connected into these data sources and
you might want to export that into your
designs, right? And so rather than
having to go and gather that information
once that release happens, this one
pager effectively was actually three
pages, a cover page, your main page, and
a legal page just appears in your
SharePoint or Google Drive, right? And
it's kind of 90 95% of the way there.
>> Wow. Um and we think in some cases more
accurate because actually trolling
through these filings as a human uh and
as because you can also pull from
multiple data sets for the same figure.
Y
>> yeah can be more accurate.
>> I'm assuming that you were you built
something in the beginning and there was
a model that was could do some amount of
this work because you did YC how long
ago?
>> A year ago.
>> A year ago. So the models have probably
progressed a lot in that year. What were
things the models could do a year ago
that were impressive and what can they
do today and where are they going to be
able to do in the future? the whole
industry or the industry we're in right
now.
>> Yeah.
>> Um really from January
>> is going straight line up. And I think
the main difference that we've seen this
year versus last year is last year was a
year of testing, right? So everyone
wanted to make sure they had some sort
of exposure like as in they were they
were triing something or looking into
something but it was still testing,
right? And us having ran consumer
companies, we don't really care about
revenue figures. We've always been
obsessed with like usage and retention.
>> Right. Right. That's good. That's good.
That's that the most valuable thing you
want to bring into B2B. Like B2B people
don't always know the most important
stuff.
>> We which we think is is madness. But
this year everyone kind of the whole
world went from testing to using. So
there and there was a fundamental shift.
I think these agentic systems there was
small things like the improvement in
things like function calling uh with
some of the newer models but everything
has become considerably better by
itself. And that's the interesting
thing, right? It's like I think
>> even if we do nothing,
>> theoretically our product will improve,
which is a pretty interesting world to
be in, right? Um and so when you're
constantly working on something and
you're you're pushing the boundaries,
you know, month to month, what what's
possible is like just wasn't possible
the previous month.
>> I also think the uh the vision models.
>> Yeah. I mean, when they first started
coming out and and improving and we were
sitting next to each other, we were
going crazy, weren't we? It was like the
stuff that we could do with the vision
models. If you think analyzing files as
an example, you know, OCR, okay, was
amazing. You combine that with vision
and its ability to uh read information
from tables and charts, it really just
changed the game.
>> Yeah. And also I think it's a
misconception, right? So like I think
the industry still thinks that AI um or
a large proportion of it is is kind of
where it was even 6 months or so ago,
right? You know what we're seeing today
is, you know, if you look at some of
these data providers, they've got humans
reading information from say public
filings and putting that in structured
format. Um, you know, the bulk of the
work that we're doing, what we're seeing
is models are already more accurate than
humans in those sorts of tasks. And so
uh I think that will take a little bit
of time in terms of confidence but but I
but I think some of the the more lower
level more kind of data gathering and
presenting type tasks are fully already
being automated at the top firms.
>> This is interesting. This I'll tell you
like they at YC the evolution went
through at the same time. So two years
ago we would say oh you can't really
sell software to investment banks or
private equity funds. they don't really
buy software or if they do they buy one
piece of software every 10 years and the
same was true for lawyers but something
happened last year like they all got
very AI curious they're curious about AI
they were like let's
>> let's do pilots to play with the
software and try it out and you were
saying that like this is the year when
that turns into actual contracts
>> exactly
>> and you can't you can no longer say
these companies don't buy software
that's wrong they're all buying software
now and that's because this this thing
happened in the last 12 months
>> exactly and last year was the year of
kind of proof of concepts and now you
know our average contracts are in the
years first of
Um and I I just think in general um
people are seeing you know a lot more
kind of shorterterm or instant value you
know I also think just you know on the
note of uh these firms historically
inclusive of law firms and others not
buying software that is I think true um
I think the big difference here is um
this is like number one thing at from
the very top this is like the number one
thing on everyone's agenda so we are not
selling like the next CRM or like the
next like data vendor tool or anything
like that. We are selling what we're
describing as the most advanced sort of
AI solution for financial services in
the world, right? And I think if you are
a a CEO or or or an exec in general,
you've kind of got to take that call,
you know what I mean? And I think that's
really played to the advantage for all
startups for sure.
>> Can you describe some of these sales
meeting like who is the decider? Like
who decides to buy the software and and
what are they like? CEO level um or or
or in general just the most senior
people at the firm regardless of if
you're a top five or top 10 investment
bank priority firm as I said I'll sub
them up and whatever it might be um
which I think at the start we found like
really strange because we we sort of
thought that this would be looked at at
a team or or group level it's really
not. I think it's so important um
firmwide that everyone has to be
involved from from the very top. And
actually what we found is you've really
got to get that buy in um you know from
the right person at the top but then
you've also got to get buyin from the
people that are ultimately get going to
be implementing the tool.
>> So are you guys are flying to meet all
these firms where they wherever they are
>> wherever they are. Wherever they are. Um
so we have a bunch of people working out
of Hong Kong and Singapore now. Um we've
just opened a small office in India. Um
uh about half of our overall team are
based in London and we have an office in
New York. Um again I think like it's
clear the product is impactful, right?
Because when we're demoing we're like
laptop out we're showing real use cases
with real data
>> uh you know high use case frequency,
right?
>> So then if you think about like why they
wouldn't sign with you, right? A big
part of that I think is trust and and
and building that relationship, you
know, because it's also a different
dynamic. You know, it's like a lot of
time you're speaking to folks that, you
know, if they make a wrong call here,
they could get fired, right? And so you
spend a lot of time building that trust.
I think a big part of that trust is is
FaceTime um and getting in front of
people obviously, but then spending the
time on on the demo and how how that's
justified and and really investing in
things that are specific to the
customer. I want to go back a little bit
to the two previous companies that you
guys ran, Pat Llama and um Fancy. Before
we get into the details of what they
were doing, like what are some of the
learnings you took from those companies
uh into Mal ML?
>> I would say you've definitely got to
enjoy it. You've got to enjoy building
companies. Uh is my overarching uh
thought. What about you?
>> I think you've just got to be prepared
for
the worst. Yeah, you got to be prepared
for the worst and the most ridiculous
roller coaster experience. Uh I think
all startup founders will say the same.
I think it's going to be a lot of ups
and downs, a lot of the time downs and
you've just got to be prepared for that
and know it's coming. Um and as Chess
says, just enjoy it because it's fun.
>> And is there a sense that when you start
the third company that you you've gone
through that before, so you've gotten
used to the ups and downs and you can
just kind of like be calmer about it?
>> You can definitely be calmer. definitely
karma but I but but there is there is
certain things that you just cannot
prepare yourself for you know I think
like you know like it just in general no
matter how much you've kind of said to
yourself this is normal you're going up
and down there'll be the odd thing it
will be employee related or product
related whatever that will still
surprise you the fundamental thing that
I think we realize that we've at least
brought into this company is this
concept of of perseverance not blind
perseverance but perseverance and I
think there's a clear there's a clear
difference where if something logically
makes sense, right? Like if you just if
in an unemotional way you're approaching
a problem and it logically makes sense,
right? Then you should probably continue
doing that thing, right? And um not let
anything stop you. And I think like the
consistency that we've noticed that of
of of founders that we've some of that
we've invested in or worked with is like
the ones that kind of do that and really
persevere tend to win. So I think that's
probably the biggest learning for us.
Just persevere at all cost.
>> Yeah, for sure. Uh I mean one of the big
ones for me in particular is definitely
hiring. I think when you know I was CEO
of Fancy I was 22 23. Um so hiring was
new to me and I think
>> to be honest I didn't really have a clue
what I was doing
>> and I think we still
>> Yeah. Okay. And hiring is always tricky.
Um, I think one of the biggest things
right now and we say it a lot and it's
probably the biggest thing that comes up
in an interview is is how much do you
think you enjoy working with that
person? I think you know at Fancy again
being sort of inexperienced and maybe
naive it was all about where have they
worked before you know what's on their
CV and you kind of ignored the the
little things that you know that that
maybe you shouldn't. And now it's kind
of the the main thing that we look for.
You know we're going to be spending a
lot of time with these people. you know,
we work a lot and everyone on the team
does and you've got a lot of work with
this person. Um, so we often meet in
person multiple times and make sure
they're the right cultural fit and it
really makes a difference. I think right
now, you know, we hire very slowly. Um,
and we try and make sure we hire the
right people. Um, and it feels like we
we've got better at that as time's gone
on. And humans are just so much more
impactful now as well.
>> So, I think it's it's just even more
important than it has been before. Um,
and yeah, the other aspect I said is
work ethic. I think we, you know, I
think we're known for it. I mean, right
now we're still working seven days a
week as we said and we have done for
about 18 months. Um, and I think
certainly in that initial period that
you've got to do that and I think it,
you know, our team work 6 days a week at
the moment. Um, look, that may change
I'm sure as time goes on, but I think
part of that point about enjoying
working with the person is they've also
got to really enjoy what they do, right?
So, we we've started to ask more
questions around look all the other sort
of standard stuff that has to be done. I
think it's important to have the kind of
standard interview type structure, but
are they going to enjoy their dayto-day?
You know, the question that we ask
people is like, you know, what have they
been building? You know, regardless of
where they're in engineering, right? And
soon as they start to me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me mention things
like oh they've been doing a bit of vibe
coding or this that and the other we're
like okay they're going to enjoy what
they're doing right and I think that's
really important
>> it feels like there's a moment in a
company's lifetime where
>> it's suddenly it's working
>> but you haven't won the market yet it
sounds like
>> that at that time it really matters to
work hard
>> because like they're you're not the only
one trying to go after this market
>> yeah we just don't like losing
>> um maybe go back to like uh winter 17
>> fat llama Um, tell us about Fatal Lama.
>> Um, so Fatal Lama was a marketplace that
allowed people to rent items from people
nearby with the main differences, you
know, uh, you were insured. So if I let
if you're my neighbor and I lent you a
camera, a $10,000 camera, I'm insured.
If I lent you a drill, the same thing.
Um, that was what we did differently
with the model. That model had been
tried a lot of times before, but it
still took us 3 years to find product
market fit. I sort of define product
market fit loosely as um, you know, the
unit economics add up. people want, you
know, uh uh what you have in terms of
product um in a sort of relatively large
addressable market, right? But it took
us 3 years to to get there and I think
that was, you know, we learned so much
during that period. Um and so yeah, that
that was Fat Llama and I can talk more
about that in a second, but what about
Fancy?
>> Yeah, so Fancy again consumer business.
So we were a a last mile grocery
delivery business uh which now
everyone's probably bored of speaking
about them but back then so this was end
of 2019 uh start of 2020 uh so our model
was a little bit different to a a Door
Dash or an Instacart. So we were what's
called a vertically integrated model
which means uh we had our own
warehouses. We held the stock ourselves
and this was relatively new in Europe. I
think there was one other player doing
it um out of Turkey, but in the UK in
particular, we were the first ones. And
really, it started it, you know, as a as
a delivery app for students. You know, I
was a student at the time. And it really
came about the need, you know, I was
really sitting there one day thinking,
God, I could do some, you know, Pringles
or some a beer to be honest and I didn't
want to walk to the corner shop that was
like 5 minutes away.
>> And this was during CO.
>> So, this was just before CO. So, this
was like, you know, 3 months before CO.
We kind of built the app MVP in sort of
four to 6 weeks. Um I studied computer
science at uni and so it was just before
co and really almost instantly as
opposed to fat lama we kind of found
product market fit almost overnight
which is that sounds obvious right it's
like you're delivering sort of beer ice
cream to students in
>> at the same cost as they would get it
from the corner shop.
>> Uh so so we took off and that was
obviously really exciting. Um and then
we got on to YC and then CO happened and
co you know for our business was really
that shot of adrenaline. I mean co
happened everyone was staying at home
you know the business really then
started to take off. Um it was an
amazing business. It's an extremely
difficult business. Um I'm sure we'll
come on to it in a bit but we got hit
with we always like to say a lot of
cricket bats to the face. You know a lot
of stuff can go wrong. Um but it was
awesome. So we continued to grow in the
UK. Um we raised money out of YC. Uh and
then we got an acquisition offer from
Gouff I think it was about 18 months
after we started. Um and Gopuff at the
time a market leader um they were very
very big in the US and they wanted a um
an opportunity to come into Europe and
we were best place for that. Um so it
really was an incredible ride.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It was like the at least for
that amount of time felt like the
perfect kind of startup ride I'd say. Uh
but again I think Fat Lama was the polar
opposite. The story I always talk about
with that llama in terms of perseverance
was you know I was you know maybe very
early 20s obviously and
you know at that time when you believe
in something and you're raising a small
angel around so this is preyc right is
you know we were raising I think maybe
$50,000 maybe $100,000 which um you know
nowadays is like I suppose back then at
least then it meant everything to us you
know we were scraping around we we were
doing half an hour pitches with an angel
that might put in $2,000
you know, we were just doing everything
we could. We fundamentally believed in
this idea and um anyway, so we built the
MVP, we launched and I started
accounting. So, so I was big on like you
are the numbers going to make sense,
right? So, I had my like forecasted
average transaction value, my retention,
everything else. So, we launched and
pretty much straight away, like within
the first day, we got a rental and um
the rental was for $600. So, I'm like
over the moon. I'm update. The one of
the first things I did is I'm straight
into the financial model and I'm
updating the average order value and
this thing is looking crazy. I'm like
we're going
>> we're going the moon,
>> right? And um so that was on Friday. It
was due to be returned on Sunday
lunchtime. All right. And remember the
criticism I got, you know, I probably
did 100 pitches to raise money and maybe
one out of 100, you know, I must have
done close to a thousand the end would
say yes. But all the other 99 was like
no one's going to lend out an item
because everyone's going to steal them
and even if you have insurance, the
insurance isn't going to work, right?
Anyway, so we had and that's all I'm
thinking, you know, it's all we're
thinking about at the time. So, we had
this first rental. Anyway, got to Sunday
and the the lender of the item called us
and said like, I can't get hold of of
the borrower of this item. So, okay,
it's fine. And then we realized after a
couple of hours, like he wasn't
responding and we started to get a bit
nervous. One of the things we did, it
was, you know, it was a native app and
when people search because it helps with
what you show in the search results is
we save or we look at the the latitude
and longitude. So, quite an accurate
geoloc. So, we had that. So, I was like,
"Okay, I'm I'm going straight out there.
We got to go and find this item." And
this was a this was like an £1,800
drone, right? So, for us, this was like
everything, right? So, we went up.
Anyway, so I arrived on this random
street in North London, and there was
just a door open to this house. I don't
think we've ever told this story cuz
it's just like it's that awful. And and
the door was there. Door was open. I
couldn't believe it. As I opened the
door, there it was. The drone was just
there on the side. So, I picked up this
drone. I got back in the car and I just
went straight down to the to the
lender's house. I arrived at the
lender's house. But you got to picture
this, right? Is what's going through my
head is everything that we've pitched,
every person that I pitched, family and
friends, we had spent months, probably
close to a year at this point,
convincing people that this would work
and they believed us and they believed
and I and they bought into this. And so
all I'm thinking is like I've lied to
them. You know, this is like my whole
world was falling apart at this point.
And so anyway, I arrived at the
borrower's house uh or the lender's
house rather, opened the door and he was
like, "Hey, you're not the lender." And
I was like, "Oh, I know." I gave him the
drone. He was like, "And you're wearing
a fat alarm t-shirt." I was like, "Yeah,
we we deliver the item back
automatically." He was like, "This is
awesome, man." Like, closed the door.
And so we it did add up you know in
terms of the insurance and we we focused
on verification but it fundamentally
came to that that perseverance piece is
like we believe this is something that
should exist and we believe from a tech
from a tech perspective we could make it
work. Uh and it ended up doing so. Um
but yeah it was tough.
>> Both outcomes seems like really really
great though like it's like set you up
well for this company.
>> Absolutely. I mean an did what the first
1,200 deliveries I think. Yeah. I think
I think with Fancier from the outside it
looks like a very fairy tale story.
>> Everything like after the fact.
>> Exact. Exactly. Exactly. And they're
like, "Wow, it's like I should start a
startup." And almost like you should,
but really it doesn't really it's not
all what it seems. You know, with Fancy,
we had so many disasters. Uh, you know,
and and so many times where we were
like, "God, is this really going to
work?" Um you know even when COVID
happened uh you know we had to stop
delivering for for a couple of weeks you
know there was a point I remember you
remember this sort of maybe two three
months into the company uh so we were
working with Stripe as our payment
provider and one day they just shut us
off uh cuz apparently there was a breach
in in their terms and service which
later was a misunderstanding but anyway
they shut us off for probably you know
three or four days uh bear in mind we
couldn't take any payments right and at
this point I can't remember how many
orders we were doing maybe not massive
you know, maybe 500 orders a
>> week in inventory. So, there wasn't a
problem with that at least.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So, at this point, what
do we do? We've got orders coming in. We
can't take payments. Um, so we ended up
just taking payments over the phone,
taking payments with cash, taking
payments with PayPal. Uh, and there were
so many of these stories. And if you
think of our business, you know, the
amount of issues we had with delivery
drivers, with warehouses. Um, it really
was, uh, an intense situation, but
that's really what made it fun, right? I
think um you know building a startup you
just become so thick skinned and you
know problems come about you know on a
daily hourly basis and you know kind of
your mood is like this all the time but
you know it's epic right on the payments
one we emailed Patrick directly and he
responded like within he sorted us out
>> yeah it was awesome
>> so if Patrick listen says thank you
Patrick he sort us out um but I think on
both of those the the general story is
and an you know the the team delivered
the first 1500 orders right and So u you
know ourselves so it was very much a
case of you know you hear but we rather
than coding at night we were coding
during the day because really most of
our orders were kind of in the evening
right
>> and but what that meant was we were
speaking to a customer for every single
order
>> right and so that the customer feedback
wasn't just like
>> real time that you hear about it was
like every order we knew what was
working what wasn't working right which
meant that you know when we started to
implement drivers
>> you know we always say that you you knew
exactly how long it was going to take
from the warehouse to that house because
you've done the route about 50 times
before and I think across all three
businesses if you sort of set up and
maintain the foundations of being
incredibly customercentric things tend
to go okay
>> yeah there is a pattern though with
startups like as they grow they move the
builders further and further away from
customers and there's a bunch of other
roles in between and eventually you kind
of have to interpret the information you
learn from customers like how are you
going to avoid that Well, it's on I mean
um I mean you speak to everyone you can
talk about on the product side I think
on on the sales side particularly
because also we have a proof of concept
phase still right so we still have a
trial phase
>> which is this nice blend between kind of
uh a sales stage but also a pure
customer feedback stage
>> so naturally uh and I and I'm 100%
involved with that and and it's also
what I enjoy as well right you know
spending time you know I don't like
demoing on a screen. I like sitting with
a user with a laptop how they're going
to work and working on the product
together. And that also is the best way
we found to sell. Um, but you're also
doing customer feedback calls
constantly, right?
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, it's always a YC
mantra. Why I think, you know, you got
to speak and listen to customers and
that's really what we try and do, you
know, on a daily basis. You know, really
figure out what are their pain points
with using model ML, what does their day
look like? and then think internally,
you know, how can we then productize
that and get that into their hands for
them to try. Uh, and it's that constant
iteration, right? We always say, you
know, the quicker we can ship things,
the quicker we can learn. Um, and really
we want to try and stay as lean as
possible. You know, we always have this
theory. We want to be the maybe not the
first, but, you know, one of the first,
you know, 10 person billion dollar
company. And it's just about staying so
close to the customer uh, and in in the
details.
>> Y's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video. So, during YC, we have
this um group office hour topic where we
talk about the what motivates you to
build a company. Um and it's mostly to
surface sort of the motivations for
founders and their co-founders.
>> So, when things are really tough, you
know why you're there. Do you guys
remember what was your initial
motivation when you started the the
first two companies? than maybe what it
is today.
>> You know, when we have our oneto ones,
we're not brainstorming how to raise
money or we're brainstorming actually
how we can do this for the rest of our
lives because it is so rewarding. You
know, building something for
individuals. Making money, I think, you
know, it just gets boring so quickly,
right? You know, it's not it's not
really that motivating, you know,
whereas building something that makes
people smile that's very impactful and a
lot of people are using it, that's just
so motivating to us. And I think like um
that really has been the story across
all the companies. Um you know and I
think what's been nice about this and
surprising about this is we were we
questioned ourselves going from a two
consumer brand heavy type businesses
into a B2B but actually particularly in
the world of AI the most important
element is like the B2C element. Uh and
and that is to us the most rewarding
element like when you do a demo to
someone or they click run and they do
something
>> and it is just there's no money that can
buy those moments
>> cuz they've never seen that before
>> and they've never seen before. They've
never seen it.
>> It was like with our previous companies
with Fancy when you would be at the door
with their delivery sort of 10 12
minutes after they ordered it and then
you saw their face like what the hell's
going on? You're already here. Uh like
Chaz said you just you know it's
priceless. I've noticed this with AI
products that they often the customers
cannot even imagine what the solution
will look like
>> um because the models are so good and
they're so advanced right now
>> and very often
>> um you just have to build like you build
it for them first like you can't really
figure out try to figure out what the
problems are because like it's not a
specific problem you're solving it's
just like it's like a whole other like a
whole other league of solutions.
>> Yeah. And and you know the difficult
thing as well is you you do have to
rethink things slightly from the ground
up.
>> Mhm. So I I do think that you know at
least as of today if our product we made
it we made a call that we would kind of
rebuild our version of like PowerPoint,
Word and Excel because we we do believe
at least for the time being that the way
in which people interact with technology
regardless of of type of technology will
remain quite consistent. In other words,
like a long form document, a
storytelling presentation and tabular
across XL Word and PowerPoint. Um we
think that will stay the same.
>> So you're not trying to get people to
change the current We're not trying to
get because we just think that that's
what people are very used to. However,
we think what's if we look at what we're
seeing this year, a lot of what's
happened up until now is sort of humans
are still coming into these systems and
they are like clicking run on something
basically, right? We think the biggest
shift this year is going to be that even
that element won't happen and therefore
elements of the user interface we think
will be less important. In other words,
these these tasks will happen entirely
autonomously. You know, as you arrive in
the morning and the things that you
would normally have had to go and
trigger and click run, they will already
be there. They will already be done.
>> Right. Right. Right. You guys are
siblings. Um, historically in YC, we've
known that this is a pretty good recipe
for a good co-founder relationship. Tell
us, I mean, you've been co-founders of
multiple companies. You've had other
co-founders, too. like tell us what
you've learned about the most important
thing and and maybe like for the
audience of founders who are thinking
about finding a company like what should
I be looking for in my co-founder and
like what's important and what's not
important. I think we mentioned it, you
know, previously around hiring. I think
this is sort of tenfold when it comes to
your co-founder. You know, you're going
to spend so much time with this person.
You know, more time that you spend with
your family, with your partners, with
your friends. Um, so I think first and
foremost, is that person someone that
you want to spend a lot of time with?
Uh, you know, obviously with us,
>> we're still not sure.
>> Yeah, we're still not sure.
>> I think if you were not sure, you
wouldn't say that.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Otherwise, it'
be really awkward. It would be really
awkward. Um, so look, you know, we've
always had a really good relationship. I
think not all brothers working together,
I think, is a good idea. I think, you
know, we've been fortunate enough we've
always had a good, you know, personal
and working relationship. One of the
things that make things really easy, I
think, is and again, not not all
siblings are like this, but there's no
filter between us. You know, we're very
transparent. We're very honest. And I
think you know with your founder you
need to be exactly that you know there
can't be any miscommunication lack of
communication like we all know one of
the biggest reasons if not the biggest
reason why you know startups fail is is
founder fallout and and I think with us
we're always very good at you know
communicating trusting each other.
Another thing on the trust piece then is
the way that we describe our ven
diagram. You know I I think I'm an
engineer but I'm not actually an
engineer. I think I am. Anie studied
computer science, I studied uh
accounting. So our ven diagram and I
think if you're thinking about another
co-founder I'd really consider this is
um Anie obviously handles sort of
engineering product and I handle kind of
finance commercials and products as well
kind of in the middle right so the
overlap in our vend diagram is basically
um customers and product right which we
think is just like the most important
piece anyway right and that bit we both
really enjoy and we and we love but we
also love all the other stuff and I
think like that clear uh segregation of
duties and interests from day one I
think is really important. So I think
one of the things that we think that we
look at is I really emphasize that point
of interest because actually you may
like for example Anie may have studied
CS and I may say but if I if I really am
interested in wanting to basically do
Anie's job and write the bulk of the
production code then we've probably got
a problem. You know what I mean? And so
I think it's like really think about
that. Uh and and and that tends to last
for a long time as well.
>> I got this email uh I think it was
yesterday from a person who was in their
early 20s. They were basically asking me
for not startup advice but life advice.
So what do I do? I'm like 21 and I think
he was writing something along the lines
of like I know I can go and build
something B2B that's quite narrow in AI
but it doesn't seem to motivate me
enough. I want to be something much
bigger. Like I want to have a bigger
impact on the world. like if you got
that email, if you would give him
advice, like what would you advise
someone who's in their really early 20s
or in school and they're thinking about
their career right now or maybe in the
world of AI um or thinking about
starting a company but want to do
something big like what would you tell
them?
>> I think we're probably biased because
you know we'd probably favor starting a
company um before going to work at a you
know a big corp. Um, I think first and
foremost we'd be very honest with them.
You know, as we mentioned before with
our fancy story, you know, you look from
the outside and it might seem like uh,
you know, sunshine and rainbows, but
it's really hard. You know, building a
business is is really, really, really
hard. It's really fun if you enjoy that
stuff, but it's really hard. Uh, so
really, you've got to say to yourself,
look, you might be building a business
for the next 5, 10, 15 years,
>> right?
>> It might not going any go anywhere. And
you've got to be okay with, you know,
that reality. Uh, and ultimately, you've
got to be very passionate about what
you're building. You've got to have that
perseverance that Chad spoke about
earlier. Uh, and if that sounds good to
you, then then build a startup. And if
that doesn't sound good to you, then,
you know, I probably recommend probably
getting a, you know, a job somewhere
else and then develop over time. Uh, and
then if you feel like you're more ready
to jump into the startup world, uh, then
do that. So maybe if you're if you're a
builder and you enjoy seeing your stuff
in people's hands, the smaller the
company you work for, maybe you're even
your own company, the faster it gets in
the customer's hands. 100% and and
enjoying that. I then think another like
different way to look at this is is um
you know, think about I know it's maybe
slightly more, but is that if that's the
correct word, but you know, if you're
lying on your deathbed, you know, and
you look back at your life, like what do
you what do you want from your life? And
I think we we do that a lot. And
basically, you know, what we conclude is
we just we just want to have been
impactful with our time. You know, we
want to have, you know, you know, left
the world a better place, but but but in
a way that we've just built things that
people enjoy using and and I think
that's really what motivates us. But I
think really that one point of um you
know, you've really got to enjoy the
journey and we just we just love
building.
>> Just sounds like if you were in his
shoes, you would give yourself basically
the advice to the path that we ended up
on.
>> Yeah. Go all in. It wouldn't change
anything.
>> Hell no. Goal in. Goal in like all in.
And I think if anything uh more is more
in general.
>> I remember when I met with Paul Graham
sometime in around the beginning of the
batch and I was doubting whether if this
doesn't work out like maybe my cur is
 And he was some he said
something like well if you're 26 and
you're poor uh that will be the worst
outcome. And probably most 26 year olds
don't have any money anyway. So doesn't
make a big difference.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's also just like the way
I describe it is like well the worst
case like the very worst case is you're
you're going to learn so much over such
a short period of time and that is the
worst case cuz often when you compare
this to like you know we often now when
we're we're hiring people we talk about
their opportunity costs right
>> I think a lot of the time if you take a
step back those jobs or those roles
they're still going to be there in a
year's time right so like the actual
worst case is you've just learned a lot
over a here. And I think if you frame it
like that, then a lot more people would
just get out and build stuff.
>> And a lot of people that end up on these
tracks, um, they sort of like 5 years
into investment banking. It's hard to
step out of that.
>> Super hard.
>> But like it's just the risk that you
want to take, you want to take early on
because it's just like much harder to
change when you're 30 and you have
commitments and
>> definitely way harder.
>> Yeah. When you're hiring people, people
that come from finance or quant
backgrounds, are there things that they
have to unlearn about their job? Either
about the company they're working for,
about the industry in order to work for
a tech startup serving the same
industry.
>> Yeah. First principle thinking, eh,
>> they just got to move faster. Okay. Um,
and again, this is probably more your
realm than mine, but what we notice is,
you know, we'll ask someone to do
something and well, they won't, but they
will try and, you know, spend a day, two
days putting together some sort of
presentation, slide deck,
>> and we're like, what the hell's going
on? You know, uh, you know, we need this
now. Um, so it's things like that where
you get, you know, caught up in the, I
guess, the big company thinking, which
look makes sense in certain
environments. Um but when you're working
in a startup and you're wearing so many
different hats, frankly there's no time
for that. So we really try and from day
one uh I think you in particular really
try and just say look we need this now.
Um instead of you know all these
spreadsheets and and slides I think that
is the first lesson. It's like
everything that you have learned for 5
years try and unlearn immediately. Um I
think just in the sense it's different
you know you just got to yeah you just
got to move so much faster. I think
building the plane going down the runway
is the best way to describe things. You
know, I think you know you know that is
the the quickest way to learn. It's
different when you're you know where are
now it's different. You know the
business you know we have large
customers in production that that can't
be the case but in terms of like the way
that you think or the way that you go
about your work the fundamentals you
know still need to remain the same. Um
you know we are big on this first
principles thinking which I know is very
much the terminology that is overused
but I think in general that way of
looking at the world is a is a better
way to build a company
>> and you guys chose to do YC three times.
Um can you describe sort of like how
you're thinking here
>> the second and third time it wasn't a
financial thing. We still get asked like
still we've we've had loads of teams
that you know people that have worked
for us that have gone on to even start
YC companies or gone on to build some
great companies and we still get asked
how we managed to maintain that and I
quote YC culture throughout the life
cycle of the company right and so the
the the way I sort of answer this is you
cannot replicate that you know I I
remember very clearly Michael Cyborg on
uh in 2017, you know, the first office
hours we had, you know, a young English
lad, you know, we report on our numbers
and I reported monthly and I remember
Michael being like, "What the hell are
you doing?" Like, let's talk weekly if
not daily, if not hourly. And I think
that culture never leaves a company,
right? That's the second aspect which
definitely cannot be overlooked is the
instant support network that you get.
You know, I think us being from Europe,
working seven days a week, it's very
unusual to say the least. And there's
not many people that we can call on. And
in fact, a lot of the people that we
surround ourselves with outside of work,
they fundamentally disagree with the way
that we work and how we're building and
why we're building, particularly when we
don't need to from a financial sense,
right? I think that's difficult. Whereas
in in the Bay Area, you know,
particularly uh and and driven by YC and
through YC, you get this like instant
network that you just you you cannot get
anywhere else.
>> And you ended up being in in the batch
winter 24, which was sort of like one of
the first really big AI batches where
most companies were building companies
similar to you.
>> Um how did that feel? Like was there
something
>> like just being in the Bay Area like 18
months ago?
>> I mean it was just crazy. I think I
think again working side by side with
people building really cool products
working seven days a week and that buzz
you know around the office around San
Francisco it's really really hard to
replicate um and we absolutely loved it
didn't we
>> yeah and it's like it felt it's
interesting you mentioned that cuz that
really was
>> that was like the first batch where it
was like through and through is just you
know AI companies pretty much and like
>> it felt like in that Slack group didn't
it felt almost daily or hourly there was
like a scientific breakthrough. It was
like phenomenal to be a part of.
>> One question I get I was in Munich and
then I was in Zurich on a trip recently
and I was in London. I saw you guys uh I
was in London um a year year and a few
months ago is from European founders is
where they should be based and where
they should be building their companies
and I don't have the right answer. Um
it's a controversial topic. You guys are
based in London. So um but I'm curious
what you think and like as you're
thinking about this question.
>> Go
this is a tough one. Uh
it's tricky. I think
we absolutely love San Francisco. Uh
we've said it many times. Every time we
come here,
>> it's the best place in the world.
>> There's something different about it.
And and we always thought, you know,
being from the UK, this San Francisco
buzz, Silicon Valley,
>> it's a bit of a myth. At least that's
what I thought growing up. And then I
think what was interesting with uh with
Fancy uh we were a remote batch, right?
So we didn't come to San Francisco. Um
and then when we came here again for for
model ML's batch, just being in San
Francisco and being a part of the
community, it was crazy. You know, Chaz
always tells a story when, you know,
you're at the gym during the batch and
you just had people on the treadmill on
their laptops, you know, on Zoom calls,
you know, talking about funding rounds
and X, Y, and Zed. And in the UK that
just doesn't happen. Um, and look,
clearly
>> clearly,
>> um, so look, we love the UK. Um, if if
we were to start a company again, I
mean, we're trying to convince people to
to move to SF for this company. Um, we
think it's an incredible place to build
a company. Um, and like we say about
work ethic, it is really challenging, we
think, in the UK in particular, um, to
find people who frankly want to work
this hard. Um, I think in San Francisco
it's a lot more common. I think in
Europe it's just not um one of the
positive things about Europe and we
always said this is is talent and
particularly engineering talent which
might sound counterintuitive I think you
got amazing engineering talent you know
in the Bay Area
>> the problem is it's very very expensive
>> and the competition is just so so high
you know you're going up against
>> you end up hiring from your own network
anyway you're trying to bring people
over from the UK exactly um whereas in
the UK I think the level is still really
really strong but the competition is
less. So your ability to hire that top
class talent
>> I think is probably stronger in Europe.
>> It's a trick question. If you're based
in Europe you I've been given advice.
Okay. If you decide to stay in Europe
try to move to one of the few cities
where there are other really ambitious
people and there's just not that many of
them. Uh London is one of them. But
Europe is not one country. So, it's like
a big culture shift to to or maybe not
big, but it's a big change to move from
um I don't know uh Spain to to London.
It's not that big of a difference to
move from Spain to San Francisco.
>> Yeah. And I also think as we spoke about
our hiring process earlier, you've just
got to be really rigorous with your
hiring process. You know, there are
amazing people and amazing talent in
these cities. You've just got to find
them. Um so, I think don't settle for
second best. You really got to find
those people that are self motivated,
hungry. Uh, chances are if they know
about YC, they've got the right
attitude.
>> And I suspect a lot of your customers
are in the US.
>> Pretty much all of them. I'd say 80% of
our customers are US.
>> How do you handle that?
>> Well, I spend the bulk of my time in New
York. An spends the bulk of his time in
London. Um, and then kind of split
between Hong Kong and and San Francisco.
Interestingly, actually, for finance, as
I mentioned this when I came in earlier,
there's a surprising number of decision
makers for global firms around sort of
technology implementation in San
Francisco. It's not out of New York or
out of London. It's out of San
Francisco. So, I think if we'd known
more about that um you know back when we
made the decision to move the
engineering team to London, that would
have influenced things. But uh yeah, my
view for what it's worth is I think
people should do what what it takes to
to move to San Francisco if that's not
possible or that's not where your
customers are based at the very least as
you said, move to a tier one city and
try and be as close to uh you know folks
that are also building stuff.
>> Awesome. Thank you so much for coming.
It's great to see you guys.
>> Yeah, great to see you again.
>> Thanks for
[Music]