Title: The Most AI-Pilled CEO We Know
Video ID: mPAHvz8kW24
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPAHvz8kW24
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-06-10T14:30:40Z
Duration: PT54M7S
Views: 31141
Likes: 679
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1637

Description:
Brex co-founder and CEO Pedro Franceschi believes most people still underestimate how much AI will change the way companies are built. AI isn't just another tool, it's a new foundation for building products, teams, and companies.

In this episode of Lightcone, Pedro shares why he thinks we're only months into a platform shift as significant as the invention of electricity, how AI has changed the way he works, and why every founder should be "token maxing" to understand the limits of the technolo

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

you wake up whatever problem you have in
your life why can't you solve it with AI
and just like start there I think the
CEO needs to be the chief AI officer
like it's not a engineering team thing
it's not like a product team thing it's
like you [music] have to understand the
bounds of a technology better than
anyone I think a good proxy for how to
spend your time is what are things that
only you can do the models cannot do you
have to sort of refound the very concept
of the what the the company selfidentity
is
>> welcome back to another episode of the
Liteco. Today we're joined by Pedro
Franchesci, co-founder and CEO of Brex.
Pedro started Brexy Winter 17 batch and
built it into one of the most important
fintech companies of the last decade.
He's here today because B has gone
deeper on AI than almost any enterprise
company we know. And Pedro's own AI
setup is so compelling that when he came
to YC for lunch, it sent our entire team
down a rabbit hole of building on their
own. So Pedro, welcome to the light
cone.
>> Thanks for having me. Excited to be
here.
>> Thanks for changing our lives.
>> Yeah. Oh god, that that that that lunch
I'm like I think the model company
should be should be sponsoring me for
the token [laughter and clears throat]
consumption increase I generate we we
you know supposedly generated on that
lunch. That was the precursor of G
Brain. I guess
>> I was still working on GStack. I was
still a 2013 web 2.0 engineer [laughter]
who timeraveled instantly to the AI
tools of January 2026. I was, you know,
probably half a million lines of Rails
code in and create a GStack because of
that to like help me make a software
factory. Yeah. And then after I met you,
>> I realized everything is about freeing
the claw.
>> Free the claw. I knew you were going to
say that.
>> Yeah. and then
>> and give it tokens.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, no, I mean,
>> let it rip.
>> The craziest thing was realizing like
what I had gotten wrong that I think
actually most people in software are
still getting it wrong
>> is uh you they've been treating the LLM
>> like this very precious thing that's
very expensive. Yeah.
>> And so as a result, you have to
literally put the agent inside a Foxcon
factory. [laughter]
>> And it's like like can you imagine like
I mean that's what the half a million
lines of Rails code was for me. It's
like, "No, no, no. I need to control
what the LLM sees because it's about
really really like I only want the
context like from here and let me write
like all the if statements to make sure
like, you know, like a Foxcon engineer,
you're waking up at 6:00 a.m. and you
know, if you don't, you're going to get
electroshocked. I mean, like [laughter]
it's just like this terrible thing that
you do to agents.
>> Yeah.
>> And they want to be like at the Eselin
Institute and that's what OpenClaw is.
>> Exactly. Exact. And it's funny because I
feel like every single good AI product
you've used is an agent loop with tools.
That's it. Like there's no you try to
sort of overengineer the harness and
then do certain things, but at the end
of the day it's skills tools and a model
like there's not really much else.
>> Maybe we start earlier because one of
the things we'd love to kind of, you
know, get down as a part of lore is like
how did you get so AI pill and like all
the way to the edge? Well, I I'll tell
you my encounter with LMS, which was so
so I remember in the pandemic, um there
was someone someone gave me an API
access to GPT3 and uh and I was playing
with it and I was like, okay, this is
this is really cool. This is there's
there's something here that could be
could be special, but it was the kind of
thing that was like, yeah, it feels like
a research project, the kind of thing
that Google used to release and you play
with it for 10 minutes and you stop. Uh
chat came out and I think everybody was
sort of interested in it. where I think
it got interesting was uh when you
started to see reasoning models and of
course tools but but I think everything
else was sort of a blip until December
um and the way I describe it to to my
team is like you know electricity was
invented in December uh and I think
electricity was open 4.5 and and sure
open models and you know openi models
got got better and better since then but
to me that was the the the the tip of
the spear where you could say yes like
coding harnesses actually work and you
know cloud code existed for probably a
year before uh but it wasn't that that
valuable yet and I remember you know
during the holiday break I was was
playing with it and and it was was
pretty shocking probably similar
reaction that that everybody here had
and I think the question becomes you
know if you sort of if you think about
you know you're you're sort of standing
you know looking at 200 years of history
and then you imagine you are we're now
in May you're sort of five or six months
after electricity was invented and most
people are still playing with candles
and you know questioning you know what
can you do with candles and fire and you
know like
>> who needs light so bright
>> what about all these lanterns and what
can you do with it and uh and you know
the steam engine is like I don't know
maybe like 20 years away still but you
know electricity already exists that to
me was the sort of the the fundamental
uh uh light behind it and and I would
say I think since then open cloud was
kind of a interesting sort of next step
which is I think when we realized that
uh you know The reality is good AI
products are agentic loops with tools.
Uh and we started doing this in our own
product at Rex but but then on the
personal side I started spending a lot
of time understanding okay what is at
the frontier of uh using openclaw and I
think the insight was just um yeah like
markdowns can take you really far just
like configuring and automating a lot of
the things in your life. It's kind of
funny. I remember I had this this
experience of like buying a movie ticket
entirely in OpenClaw using like a Brex
card. It was provisioned through an API
and uh and then I showed it to my team
and they were like, "Oh, but like you
can go online and like book it in 10
seconds." And I'm like, "That's not the
point. You're missing you're completely
missing the point." Uh but anyway, and
then I I went obviously very deep into
this rabbit hole and uh started spending
a lot of time thinking how to change the
fabric of the company and the way we
build the products and
>> tell us more about the your personal
open claw journey cuz I before you came
for lunch I had it like in store but I
was like way too scared to do anything
with it. We were all scared.
>> Yeah, don't get me wrong like we we we
deal with financial services data. We
spend a lot of time figuring out how to
how to be mindful of security and
protection. But and yet uh I think
people are a little bit more riskaverse
than than the technology probably
requires them to be given where the
technology is. And and when we when we
started using open cloud personally, I
started doing it in a lot of my own
personal setup. Basically what I did in
the the v1 was I'm going to give it read
access to everything and just create
like ow tokens to my email to Slack and
to everything to just literally not
write. And I was kind of shocked how far
it got me. Um, and then the next
question that we we spent time on Brex
was okay like how do we actually get it
to right into our systems and everybody
in Google security team was well we
cannot do that for all the reasons that
we know and then basically where I spend
I don't know probably four weeks of my
time was okay let's solve the hardest
problem which is security uh and we
ended up realizing that the only way to
actually do something about it was to do
something in the network layer. Uh and
if you treat the agent like you know the
agent has its own wills desires and you
know they they they go to the ALM
institute for for for for agents and uh
you know they have
>> instead of Foxcon's factory
>> instead [laughter] of Foxcon's factory
they will try to do things at a network
boundary that that could not be the
right ones. Um and we decided to
actually just focus on that. So a lot of
folks were you know and we saw Nvidia
and others on Nemo claw let's build
these like open shell pro forks that
have controls over you know what tools
the model calls and the reality is yeah
you can do all that but you can also
just make an HTTP request wrong. So we
focus on that layer and then we build
this thing called crab trap which we
open sourced uh probably about two
months ago which is actually the way we
use to to uh secure agents at Brax in
production. And the the basic premise is
you analyze you you HTTP proxy uh the
entire network boundary of an agent. And
the idea is um when a request goes
through that becomes auditable and you
basically can uh use another agent to
analyze the traffic and create a policy
to let traffic go through or not. And
surprisingly or unsurprisingly because
these models are trained on you know
hundreds of billions of web documents
HTTP traffic is actually I would say
probably the way the models reason more
so than anything else because they just
literally learn on the web.
>> So the the ability of the model to watch
like a thousand requests and make sense
of what's happening was way higher than
we anticipated. So, so we actually build
that uh put that in in production at Rex
and after you record a traffic of an
agent operating for a day, you can build
a pretty good policy uh that you know
sets things that should be automatically
approved and for things that you the
agent isn't really sure. Uh you can just
use an LLM as a judge and the LM
determines is this request something
that should be approved or not based on
the policy for what that agent should be
doing. So for example, we have like a
recruiting agent at BRS called Jim. Uh
we have a policy for Jim. uh and you
know all the traffic goes to that same
policy and 98% requests go through
automatically 2% use an LM so we sort of
got that problem solved to a degree that
we got comfortable experimenting much
more aggressively and sort of freeing
the clock on the enterprise which is
really hard inside uh capital one so I
would I would say if we found a way to
experiment with these things and and
granted we don't do the most aggressive
things with this stuff yet we don't use
it on like you know customer data to the
degree that we want one day to do and
and there's there's boundaries to how we
do Uh I don't see any reason why a YC
company shouldn't be at the bleeding
edge of the stuff.
>> Yeah, I mean I think your intuition
around like the the proxy at the network
level ended up being quite precient.
Like I think a lot of the stuff that I'm
seeing kind of around the open claw
ecosystem at the moment at least or just
agent ecosystem is essentially doing
that like we're seeing that like with
credentials credential brokering like
agent vault [clears throat] is doing a
lot of that. I think you had mentioned
the first version of crap trap included
like uh credentials
>> vault. Why did you decide not to include
that? I think it was just let's just do
one thing really well. Um and and and
you know at the end of the day I think
there's going to be a lot of solutions
that do that. You could do credential
brokering and other tools already but
the LM as a judge was for us the
determining capability to say do you
trust us in production or not? And our
security team at BR very rigorous and
very good at what they do for a long
time were well you know not really. Uh
to getting them to a yes we actually
believe this is enough uh was a big
unlock for us. And look, I always say
this like we're not in the business of
building HT proxies. We are in the
business of being at the bleeding edge
of what it can do with AI. And to get to
the bleeding edge required us to build
this proxy. That's why we did it.
Hopefully someone's going to build a YC
company. Hopefully we're going to build
a better version and we're just going to
go use it. But at the end of the day, um
that's the journey that took us to just
sort of being at at the bleeding edge in
that way. And how much was was you like
sort of pushing this forward and like
how much resistance did you get
internally and just how did you like
>> I mean AI build I think there was a lot
of excitement about it but the way I
describe AI adoption inside most
companies is I think there's like sort
of three tiers there's tier number one
which is your token maxers like your
engineers that are pushing a bunch of
code and and and typically living inside
coding harnesses and and those are sort
of well known we know who those are Then
you have the the sort of average
engineer uh that is building a few
things but you know not not sort of
token maxer to the same degree and
probably I don't know a tenth of the
productivity and then you have like the
entire rest of the company and the
entire rest of the company typically is
interacting with AI in what I call like
Google search mode way which is a
chatbot with a few MCPS um or a G Suite
equivalent like yeah you have a few
tools from Google but at the end of the
day it's really just like a a search and
I think uh where our thesis was if you
think about the value that AI creates
for like a a token maxer for example a
lot of the value comes from the harness
and the thesis was how to actually build
an equivalent harness for other teams
that are nontechnical and our whole sort
of thinking behind it was like that's a
lot of what openclaw you know created
which is this ability that you can self
bootstrap a lot of the capabilities of
the agent by the way you edit your
skills and markdowns and and and sort of
set up the the environment around the
agent. Uh and how far can we get this
ability to for the agent to self
bootstrap a capability without anyone
actually going and coding it by hand. So
the analogy we use internally for I
would say the sort of the the
companywide adoption of AI is we we
don't believe in the yes like give
people a few MCPS and let them go
because I think what people really want
is uh in my opinion is really a way of
saying okay this is actually a virtual
employee almost that has you know it's
on Slack it has an email I can actually
invite it to a meeting can join a
meeting take notes and and you're trying
to replicate that as much as possible so
how do you build the infrastructure to
support that kind of use case and I
think the harness because we will will
look a little different probably more
like open claw than a coding model.
Jared and I just did this this week for
the first time where we installed Aqua
voice and then you open Telegram with
the claw or actually we have it in Slack
now
>> and then basically it was like me and
Jared and like three engineers
>> and our someone from the events team and
we're trying to put together um how do
we put together 60 dinners with uh 20
people each of attendees from startup
school
>> with with 21 uh partners and visiting
partners at YC. Sounds like a great
problem.
>> And then we just basically started
talking about it and then I picked that
up and then I pressed enter and then you
know our claw just started doing it.
None of us opened cloud code like it
just sort of built a bunch of markdown.
It did the analysis and
>> yeah people people forget that cloud
code isn't magic. It's just it's just
literally a harness around the same
models we you can use in an API, right?
So so I think that's the the unlock of
and by the way there's a few things that
cloud code is doing that I think are
really cool. Oh, they're amazing.
>> And yet, uh, it's just it's just a
harness. Uh, and
>> and claw can use cloud code.
>> Exactly.
>> And codeex, right? It really prefers to
use codeex these days.
>> Exactly. It really does [laughter]
everything actually.
>> I don't know why, you know. Exactly. But
ACP helps on that. So, yeah.
>> Yeah. ACP is good.
>> Why do you think the adoption of uh
token maxing hasn't really taken off?
The thing that we found it very curious
working with a lot of startups early on
is a lot of founders are very shy about
burning tokens. I think you really get
to experience this when you really go
all the way.
>> Gary mentioned this point which is
tokens are expensive and and I think
there are you know I'm in a fortunate
position to to be able to spend on
tokens. But I would say I keep trying to
picture myself. Imagine if I was like 14
or 12 when I started coding for real and
I had the technology we have now. I
would be token maxing in the cheapest
way possible. And there are people doing
that. You know, you look at the Chinese
models, for example, like they're
they're pretty decent.
>> There's a huge um uh hobbyist community
where they, you know, build a gaming
rig,
>> but then they try to build like local
LLM and then that is like totally
reasonable way to do it.
>> 100% 100%. I have a friend that that
that has the exact same setup. He has
his like little GPU farm in his house
and uh and first time I went there, I
was like, "Wow, heating's on here. It's
really hot in here and he's like no no
no it's my GPUs
>> and I was like great like uh you know
power efficiency all all the way
through. It's funny because at Brax and
and we should talk about managing token
cost and spend management for tokens
which is a topic we're spending much of
cycles on now. I think that the cost
part is one but but even even if you
take the cost part aside you know the
first symptom is a lot more people
should be complaining about the max plan
[clears throat] limits and you know I
you see how what's the percentage of
Twitter that probably complains about it
like.1%.
Mhm.
>> So, so I think I think people are
probably still early. To me, there's
this like the AI pill test in my opinion
is
whatever problem shows up in your life,
do you default to AI first or not? It's
like of course mechanically you can do
it, but there's a point that it becomes
like second nature and then your whole
like brain gets rewired and you cannot
think in a different way and and and
there's the whole topic about AI
dependency, human machine interaction.
Yeah, there there's all these things
that we can we can talk about and put in
the corner. It still sort of surprises
me how many people you go talk to about
a problem and I'm like it's so cheap to
intimately understand the bounds of this
problem now. Like why haven't you done
that yet and come in with like a much
more digested view on the problem? And I
think the second thing is like I I think
I think if you have the luxury of
building a company now the fabric of the
company from day one can be built in
such a different way that I think I if I
were to start a company today I would
say okay the premise is why can't it be
just me like and then you start from
there and your token consumption is
probably going to be a lot higher than
if you said well I'm going to have like
three people or five people or seven
people and and I think the the
fundamental constraint isn't as much in
my opin opinion uh like uh uh oh like
like a AI as a cost savings or I'm going
to be more efficient. I think the unlock
is like the fabric of the company just
looks very different when the boundaries
become type systems, interfaces, agents
talking to each other versus people uh
and and I I think people were still
didn't fully grasp like okay what does
it mean to build code with new agents
like and the new technologies we have. I
think that's like well understood. But
how to live in a world where
intelligence is on a tap and your
default answer is let me actually solve
this problem with AI first even if you
feel suboptimal and then from there
saying okay how do I actually make it
optimal because I think for the majority
of problems there is a way to solve it
with AI that is probably better and your
job is to figure that out even if it's
going to take you more time because that
will compound. YC Startup School is
back. We're hand selecting the most
promising builders in the world and
flying them out to San Francisco for
July 25th and 26th to discuss the
cutting edge of tech and startups. Apply
now for your spot.
>> When you started Brex, I mean like it's
well known like your like MVP like had
no web UI, right? It was just like all
terminal like super scrappy. today would
have because no one needs HTML. It's
just test anymore.
>> Like was it actually still the right
approach just have a really simple MVP
and test that anyone work or would would
you have like a way more fully featured?
>> So so I I I have this controversial view
which maybe you all will disagree uh
which is like I actually think if I look
into a pattern of companies that succeed
I think there's a really interesting
pattern which is minimal surface area.
And the problem is with AI I think you
see like look at Stripe for example.
Stribe early days was like literally an
API. Braxton early days no UI just like
literally a terminal. Um you look at
Airbnb is like the website was a form
and the form was just like literally
where you put it what you needed and
then someone somehow went there and
figured out how to actually make the
booking happen. Like Door Dash in the
early days similar, right? like it was
just like literally so so the the
surface area was so small with the
customer and so much of the the band the
sort of the intelligence and the
bandwidth of the founders were spent
nailing this one single interaction
pattern and I think the risk with AI is
that the agency behind choice goes away
so so you have this you have this this
this
lack of discipline on what matters to
solve and I think people tend to believe
that I can just experiment a lot of
things and that's absolutely True, but
but that doesn't preclude you from
actually choosing what matters. I I I
always tell people like I think if you
don't if you can't minimize your surface
area and and solve the problem with a
very clear set of boundaries, you
haven't found the right problem to
solve. And I think that's and you can of
course find how to compress the problem
into a smaller surface area using AI and
that's really valuable. But I don't
think you should use it as an excuse to
not do that which I think is well I can
just build so many other things. But you
know I I always tell this to people like
intelligence is compression. So when
someone comes to pitch me an idea in the
company I'm like it has to fit in a
napkin. Like great ideas fit in a
napkin. What's your what's your napkin?
And then someone comes with this and I'm
like I don't know where you buy napkins
but the ones in my house are not this
[laughter] size. How about the step
before it then? Even I like actually a
lot of the pivot advice I give founders
during the batch comes from um you
talking about how you found the Brex
idea and if I like the approximate view
I remember is that you thought about it
as like two week cycles and like you're
either in like exploration or
exploitation mode and you're like trying
a bunch of things but then you want to
like hone down like would you still use
that pattern now?
>> 100%. I think one of the most one of the
hardest things of building a company is
talking to customers and and and and not
not just having the conversation but how
to extract the sort of unspoken signal
from these conversations and I think to
me the the can AI solve this lens like
like whatever problem shows up in your
life can AI go solve that and you think
about like building a successful company
like why can't you prompt your way into
that and and the reason is very simple
is because there's signal that the
models weren't trained on and the signal
is when you go talk to a and they tell
you about a problem they have, they're
not going to tell they're not going to
give you the answer shaped into a prompt
that you can put into an LM and that LM
is going to go and output the product
that's going to win and be a billion
dollar company. They're going to tell
you a very sort of local optimum answer
based on their worldviews and their
constraints and the way they see things.
And and I think a lot of the job is the
the job now is to have the wisdom to
choose what you want and because before
the wisdom was not just to choose was to
choose and know how to execute it. The
execution is out right the execution is
gone and the model's going to do that
better. The wisdom to choose is still I
think the the missing bottleneck and to
me that all comes from which signals are
not in the models.
>> So say like pre AI you had personal
bandwidth to explore like three ideas in
parallel. You're saying like now in AI
world you'd still do three in parallel.
would you do like 30 and let the models
try and
>> the way I would probably approach it is
is like let's let's pick a broader
universe of things to do sort of a early
initial exploration but but to me the
lens is okay why can't AI solve it and
like which signal is not in the model
and I think the signal is typically the
customer and and then and then when you
go talk to the customer I think I
wouldn't paralyze that probably I would
be okay let's try to get in the headsp
space of this person and and and I think
there's like it's so easy and and we we
did a lot of exploration with like
synthetic customers and building
customer role models and things like
that and and those are really valuable
once you know a lot about the customer
but when you don't know enough yet I
think there's this like very basic thing
which is even at Brex for example like
one of the hardest things for us as a
company was we initially sold to
founders we are founders we knew about
ourselves we knew about our problems and
then as the company got bigger we were
selling to finance teams and finance
teams are different so so building that
mental model of like what's the value
system like of course you can eventually
make the model represent that and and
have that world view. But but there's
there's an intangible that I think is is
where a lot of the alpha still comes
from. And I think to me is like the the
I think a good proxy for how to spend
your time is what are things that only
you can do? And even in the company of
one, what are things that only you can
do and the models cannot do? And that to
me is like one of them.
>> I think that's so on point. I think a
lot of founders like you that
successfully navigated pivot have this
loop. Basically, there's this uh there's
this book others in mind from psychology
[clears throat]
>> that has to do with people that have
very good emotional connection with
people are able to simulate what the
other person is thinking and what the
others and others mind.
>> Exactly.
>> And I think the founders that get that
and have the empathy to figure out what
the customer is not verbalizing is what
is uh make the I think Gary says this
make the implicit explicit
>> 100%. of what are all those desires
>> 100%
>> and they're very subtle signs a lot of
time because they're murmurss
>> as founders go through them and figure
out the insights that oh is this really
a thing but how do you know when to poke
for it and the problem with um
>> relying on models and right now which is
I'm still very optimistic that there's
still a lot of job founders
>> definitely
>> is you don't even know what the right
incantation or set of prompts to ask the
model because they're they're you don't
even know what to ask
>> exactly
>> there's like another meta layer
>> yes it's it's the whole like Elon thing
of like you know which question is the
universe the answer for kind of and of
course these these are these are
generalities right but but I I think
what I've seen is you you have to
remember that LM are not magic like LM
are trained on a very specific corpse of
information optimizing for a very
specific set of benchmarks and outcomes
and I think the biggest pitfall of LMS
is you have no sense of how much
training data the model has seen for the
exact thing that you're asking it So
imagine imagine if like every time you
asked an LM a question it gave you like
yeah like I the the the sampling
frequency of this in my data set was I
don't know X and on this other answer
was 0.00001x 00001x.
You would trust is very different,
right? The distribution is so different.
>> Oh, I would pay for that. That's a great
startup idea.
>> Exactly. Someone should do that.
>> We need to do a model that does that.
>> Yeah, 100%. I I would pay for it.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, because it's fascinating because
then like anything that's out of
distribution, you just go and like fill
that in for use. I mean, actually, as an
applications engineer on top of the
LLMs, that's actually a huge like blind
spot.
>> And that's what Merkore and a lot of the
other data companies are doing. like a
lot of the jobs for them is to say well
where what are the blind spots for LLMs
and and it's funny like I I think a lot
of the data labeling companies right now
trying to understand the pitfalls in the
models but the problem is in order to do
that you have to be an expert to know
what the gaps are in the answers but the
problem as a founder when you're looking
for an idea is you know nothing about it
so so the so there there is a there's a
curse of knowledge and and a curse of
not even knowing what the bounds of
knowledge are is uh which I think can
can make you believe believe that you
understand something that you actually
you in order to model actually
understand.
>> Can I confess something weird about like
um after creating Gbrain now um I I do
use AI in a different way where um now
that I have a retrieval system that is
actually usable if I have a problem or
question about anything. Uh like for
instance I was trying to work on a
really really like the last uh humanized
prompt
>> and uh you know a lot of that stuff
probably isn't in distribution yet.
Wikipedia article about
it like go spend a day like deep
research literally every single paper
article like read everything put it into
my git repo and then I'll be able to
retrieve it and summarize it into
something that actually is usable and so
that that's sort of like filling in%
>> um the things that are out of
distribution like I can sort of like
pack it with whatever context and it's
You can do that with anything is like if
you're interested in, you know, running
a restaurant, literally you could have
you could go and read like 500 books
about like every the top 500 books about
what it's like to run a restaurant and
you would have like the compendium of
all information about it.
>> Yeah. And I think a lot of what like for
example like one of the things that we
we do at Brax now is building this
customer world model is a similar idea
where we're trying to get every single
touch point that the customer has with
us like literally like what how many
times they click a button on the
dashboard all the way to what they tell
someone on an email or what they say on
the phone or they send a call and ingest
that and consolidate. Okay, what should
this customer need next from us? What
should this customer be thinking about?
like what are the issues that they will
face but haven't faced and and again
it's just a distribution problem.
>> This is actually an answer to one of the
questions which is like will there be
jobs or whatever. It's like as long as
there are limits on uh RAM
>> Mhm. actually like there will be
>> so I don't know I mean
>> that's kind of an interesting one right
like so literally you can't have a model
that has enough parameters that could
like have everything that you could
possibly need in distribution like there
aren't enough atoms in the universe
right it's like a modeling problem I
>> I think we forget that the world models
in which the models are train like there
is something that the designers of the
models influence the way the model
actually behaves in the end so so you
know one of the things that we spend a
lot of time thinking is like how to make
LMS work for people that look very
different from us. uh how to make
elements work for like the average
finance person in the US that if you're
talking about an answer and you know the
model defaults to like AI capex as a
finance as a default category for like
like for example that's a really funny
example like I was playing with AI for
accounting categorization and like the
first example of like an example of an
like it's just like writing pros and an
example is like AI capex and I'm like oh
why is it AI capex the first example it
comes up with because the people that
are building the models [ __ ] only
think about AI capex, right? So, so
there are things like that that I think
is like are kind of interesting to think
about that the the the mental models of
the models I think are out of the box
are are more biased than we may give
them credit for.
>> I mean speaking of AI capex like earlier
you were saying like [laughter]
you know we're we're so early still. I
don't know the funniest thing about AI
to me is uh how often I find myself
thinking um crypto maxims. Yes.
>> This is the worst the models will ever
be.
>> Yes.
>> My favorite now is uh telling people who
hate AI coding like have fun coding at
1x speed.
>> Exactly. [laughter] Exactly. I was
telling a friend about you know how how
how to how how to be you know long
inference that basically the thesis is
that there's going to be a lot more
inference than people think and people
are expecting a lot of inference if you
just look at public markets and you know
semi-upply chain all that
>> people are saying like 10,000x.
>> Yeah. But but the the underwriting which
is kind of funny is like I think there's
one image 2500 dots each dot is a 3.2
million people on the planet and
basically you know 84% of the world
never used AI 16% have used at least
once a free chatbot then 0.3% which is I
guess six or seven squares uh pay 20
bucks a month for AI and one box out of
the 2500 actually use agents in in
whatever capacity. So that's the that's
the argument to be long inference. Uh
and uh I think it's I think it's just
it's just starting out and I think a
funny thing on on this is I think the
you know it will be the biggest expense
in a company like like easily right and
and yes there's a lot of margin in
tokens right now but people always want
to be at the bleeding edge but even
token costs decrease by 10x they're
going to have 10x more usage so it will
be still a large cost. Um, and we're
spending a lot of time thinking how to
help companies actually manage token
spend. On Brex, we we ended up building
our internal version of this. We call it
Magpie where the idea is you can
effectively, you know, every dollar of
token spend in the company, you can
attribute to a product we have to
customers, an internal tool that we use
to serve uh or an internal employee uh
and understand
model usage, etc. and and we're now
figuring out how to build analytics on
what are we trying to do with the tokens
um to start to get a sense of ROI. Uh
but anyway, it's a fascinating topic
that I think has a lot of like early
early work compared to what it will be
one day.
>> Can you share any of the data that
you've gotten from Brexit about just
like what token spend is like in the
economy and
>> uh it's increasing. [laughter]
>> No, look, I think two things are
surprising. one is um I think to to your
point earlier on how do we how do we
look at token maxing I do think there's
such a thing as how much cost boundaries
you create internally dictate token
consumption obviously but to me I think
what's the most fascinating is when you
look into the sort of 10 milei radius
we're in now uh and maybe you include
New York um tons of token consumption
and and and and you could probably argue
and and we see in the data also faster
revenue growth. I think what's really
interesting is the gap between
anyone in these two 10 milei radius and
everything else. And this is like not
small companies like you look into like
very large companies with very large
budgets and that that could be token
maxing and and the economic thing for
them to do would be to token max and
they spend like I don't know 10,000 a
month and you're like you should
probably be spending 10 times more or 20
times more or 100 times more. That's
still surprising and and I think the
reason is again sort of similar to the
point at the beginning like we did this
exercise two and a half years ago where
I sat down with you know a lot of the
the engineering product leaders in the
company and we had this question which
is if we started Brex again in 2024 the
answer would be even more different now
what would we do differently and turns
out like everything [laughter] and we
start going down this route and it's
like it's kind of maddening because
they're like okay we have this like
completely old way of like even thinking
about the fabric of the company and and
the way we build the product and the way
we build our processes internally the
first best answer is yes we wish we had
started now second best answer is like
let's go do something about it and
change the way we do things right and I
think a lot of our approach in terms of
like adopting I has also been you know
how do you how do you pause and say okay
like there is a discontinuity in the not
just in how we solve the problem but on
what the definition of the problem
actually even is and sort of take a step
back and rethink think it um and you
know like there's there's like millions
of examples of that but you know one
example which is kind of funny is you
know we're redesigning our KYC process
like whenever we on board a customer we
have to do all these checks to KYC the
customer and KYC historically is
something that you can automate like 80%
of it 20% is manual uh and of course the
original impetus for anyone is let's
build an agent that does it yes we can
go do that but what we decided to do is
actually say let's redesign the entire
process end to end and then what we
redesigned is the entire entire
onboarding process. And when you
redesign the entire on boarding process,
what you realize is there's a very
important thing that happens in the
beginning of the funnel, which is deal
qualification. Like, is this customer
even remotely qualified to be a Brex
customer? But when you have KYC for
free, you can you can KYC a lead versus
a customer. So, you start to have risk
orientation up in your funnel and that
changes who you even target because you
know who's going to qualify. And the
same thing true for credit to some
degree. So now the bounds of the problem
have changed and and you can go in and
say and I think a lot of including a lot
of our competitors had this approach of
saying oh I have this entire old process
let me go and like latch on AI on top of
it or latch on AI on top of our product
and I think the the biggest
discontinuities in a positive way that
we've had when we said hey let's keep
this old way here keep put it in a
corner and like how would we design it
if we started the company today from
scratch and then just doing that it
takes a little bit of founder energy to
do that but I think it's
It's the only thing we've seen working
to to really sort of inflect.
>> I think that reminds me a lot about this
is sort of uh way back. I don't know if
you ever try to compile Arc
distributions of Linux.
>> Mhm.
>> The culture within power uses of Arc
Linux versus Ubuntu is very different.
>> Mhm. Very [clears throat] different.
>> I think the Ubuntu people kind of feel
more like people that try Chat GPT.
Stuff kind of just works out of the box.
There's some stuff that you can get up
and running. There's still not a lot of
people that use Linux by the way, which
I think it feels where AI is. But with
Arc, you're like super hardcore. And I
think that's what Open Claw and Hermes
feel like because you have to really
customize it to your own own use case,
maintain your skills,
>> have all the markdowns, and if you get
it working, you can build something
awesome. One of the mo most impressive
thing I've seen people build with Arc is
actually I don't know if you know uh
Valve the Steam engine, the operating
system that runs that makes it feel like
a Nintendo Switch
>> is actually built on top of Arc.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> They customized all the drivers,
overtheair updates. It works with all
consoles. It work with all sorts of
hardware out of the box, but they super
duper customized it. And I think this is
kind of what's happening. If you get
your open claw to work really well for
you, you could kind of build your own
custom Nintendo Switch for whatever you
need to do.
>> Yeah. I I always have this thing that I
tell people, which is which is funny,
which is
think about your time two years ago.
Like I feel like you're working a lot
more now than two years ago, right? And
probably same for everybody here. So
then the argument is what what about the
productivity? Where's the productivity?
[laughter] Right? And uh and I was
talking to this CF very large public
company uh uh this week and she was
telling me that we see all the token
consumption and and and you know we're
trying to measure like like product
velocity and we're seeing like more
lines of code pushed. So, so yes, maybe
that's the way to measure the ROI, but
but but is it really there because
people are spending so much on tokens
and and I think the I think I think this
analysis like yes, of course, I think
having a sense on ROI on tokens is
important, but I think it misses the
point that you're standing in the
timeline of history and it's 6 months
after electricity was invented. like
thinking about like imagine someone
saying in in like I don't know 18 the
1800s like oh my electricity bill is so
high now like gosh let's use a little
less let's keep let's push the steam
engine to come like maybe 20 years later
because the cost savings like like yes
of course like don't bankrupt your
company on tokens
>> it's actually a perfect analogy because
I don't know if you know this but when
electricity was first invented it didn't
work very well and the ROI was actually
bad and so if shortly after the
invention of electricity some of
accountants had done this analysis they
would have been like, "Oh, this
electricity thing is like isn't never
going to be a thing. The ROI sucks.
>> Why did people stick stick to it?" And
and it wasn't it wasn't the cost
savings. It was just because people were
curious about it. And I think it's I
think the point of like why, you know,
like I was yesterday until 2 a.m.
playing with SLworkflows and Opus 4.8
made and and all that is because I think
I would be doing the exact same thing if
I wasn't making any money because you
just see the possibilities and you see
what it can do to technology and that
just drives people to behave differently
and and I think uh that to me is the the
ultimate litmus test and and it's a good
separator and and sure tokens are so
expensive they're going to be I think
over the fullness of time probably free
uh if you project is I don't know 100
years down the line almost compared to
what electricity now we don't think of
electricity costs in our day-to-day days
but unless you're in a data center uh
but but I think there's something
there's something similar for sure
>> we talked to a lot of founders of later
stage companies who wish that their
companies could be like as AI pill as
possible and you run this like big
company now with all of these employees
and that's only the bre side there's
also the capital one side I'm curious
what you've done to like bring the rest
of the company along with you on this
journey and if you have advice for other
people
There's a lot to do. I think the CEO
needs to be the chief AI officer.
>> Like it's not a engineering team thing.
It's not like a product team thing. It's
like you have to understand the bounds
of a technology better than anyone. I
would argue that unless you unless you
really experience the the the limits of
a technology every day. I think it's
really hard to even understand what what
it can possibly do.
>> Oh, you know why? It's because nobody
can say no to the CEO except the board.
And the board won't be in the weeds, per
se. That is [clears throat] 100% true.
When you go think about like you know
the whole the whole example of KYC that
we were saying like the KYC team would
never think of using the KYC technology
to score a lead. The only people that
can think about the organization of the
system itself is if you have the context
of the whole and and to me like the the
the single most important question that
any co needs to answer is forget about
the competitive landscape. Imagine you
could get the state of the technology
today and transport to the moment you
started your company. The opportunity
was still the same but but just the
possibilities of the way to build a
company are totally different. How would
you do it and then diff this versus what
you have and then first suffer in
silence for a little bit because you
will I mean I I do every day but then
the second thing is okay what do you do
about it and how would you do it if you
were starting from scratch? you'll be
the one figuring out okay how do we
design our on boarding process or how we
design our our growth engine and our
customer acquisition and the way we talk
to users and the way we synthesize the
data and all of that would be would be
redesigned from scratch so so I think
it's like it's almost like a you have to
sort of refound the very concept of the
what the the company selfidentity is and
the way the functions and and and and
people's sense of success get structured
AI is a is an umbrella that I think has
like three things the way we talk about
it internally Okay. Uh there's product
AI, the product we actually ship to
customers. There's operational AI, which
is things that directly affect our
ability to serve customers at scale.
Like think of customer success, risk, on
boarding, operations, etc. And there's
corporate AI, which is how people work
internally. The three agendas matter and
they matter in different ways depending
on the timing of the company. Um and and
I think people will sometimes sort of
pigeon hole themselves in one of the
three. But in reality, I think you have
to take a step back and be like, you
know, the same same thing we're talking
about earlier. Like why can't you solve
everything with AI? Like at a limit,
that's the question. And and then sort
of start from there and sort of problem
solve around that question. It's a
turnaround almost. I think you have to
assume that if you're a big large
company that's not AI native, you're
doing a turnaround uh to some degree. I
guess we've been making fun of Foxcon
factories for some time, but on the
other hand, like if you look at them,
they're like this paragon of like very
extreme efficiency. Yeah. But they also
uh are designed to be that to like
create like one thing perfectly back to
back to back and so you have to build a
factory like that
>> and most companies are designed that
way, right? I think like processes are
designed not to change.
>> There is a certain amount of broken
glass required. The question is how like
I think it's 10x easier for the co to
break glass than an executive. Oh
>> and 10x easier for an executive than an
employee. So you know a lot of times
like someone comes to me and says I'm
trying to do this AI but someone is
saying no because we haven't tested this
in this use case or in that thing and
I'm like okay what are you trying to do?
Like do you understand the risks? Do you
understand the guard rails? Yes. Okay.
It takes me literally 10 seconds to
solve that problem and it would take
someone 10 hours to go in into the
meetings and escalate and understand
okay can we can we or maybe never and I
think the conclusion is probably never
because most people would say
>> you know what I'm just going to like
build this soft this product in the old
way because like why wouldn't we it just
works we know it's here
>> that's that guy's going to hate me and
then I have to look at that person in
the lunch line every day and it's like
>> I want people to be happy and like me so
I'm just not going to do that
>> and what I tell people is I I think I
think the escalation paths need to be
like desensitized in the system because
the company builds antibodies against
any sort of you know disturbance to the
social cohesion of the company typically
gets like rejected by the antibodies and
I think making escalations faster and
being like hey we're going to go try
this thing
you know I I understand the risks let's
let's take this risk because the biggest
risk is not taking that is is just
literally missing the opportunity to
rethink a problem from what would you do
if you started a company today
>> on the corporate AI sort of leg of that
store specifically like do you buy into
sort of like the Jack Dorsey view of
every company's essentially trying to
like build its own little company AGI
>> I I do but but maybe in a slightly
different way I do think domain
specificity matters so like I I don't
believe in the like oh I'm going to have
like a single company model that has
like every piece of data like in a
single like with no judgment or lens
into anything. So, and and the way I
think about it more is like is more sort
of the the the the virtual employee
analogy, so to speak, which is like how
do I build an agent or virtual employee
that is exceptional at understanding
everything that matters about this
customer. That is a well- definfined
problem with clear boundaries with like
clear APIs of who people who who depends
on that data, who interact with that
data that that is self-contained. Then
there's another another agent that can
be okay given all the customers that we
have and the problems they have how do I
manage my product road map that can be a
separate agent but that that builds on
top of this customer world
>> like a virtual exec team basically
>> uh exactly functional and domain
knowledge still matter right these
things are not going to go away and I
think the the way knowledge is
structured I think still is still true
right that doesn't necessarily change
that much and and you should separate
the agent that and and and the systems
that are actually emitting code from the
system that is talking to customers and
the system that is reasoning about the
conversations of customers and
translating into product road map. Bas
three separate things. We're kind of
like the Tesla for AI. We're like I
don't believe in anything that doesn't
have real usage. So it's like yeah I
build this great model and I'm like okay
how many people are using it? Is it
actually displacing the need to hire a
person inside a company? Is it actually
displacing the need to you know spend
literally hours? Like how many hours is
this thing saving? And and I think a lot
of times people say, well, you know,
it's a it's a cool model. And I'm like,
yeah, but like that's not that's not
gonna cut it, right? Once you have that
orientation, I think customer model,
okay, like your, for example, our client
sales team now runs on our customer
world model. So I know it works. I'm I'm
actually having lunch of a customer
tomorrow and I don't know the state of
that account as well as I probably
should. customer role model answered a
question for me and I now have a report
with in including things that the team
didn't know about that came through
support tickets and you know an
executive that was traveling had an
issue at an airport with their card all
these things
>> awareness
>> total information awareness right that
is a well- definfined problem that is
working I can trust this building block
as part of my company model as a whole
and you can have evolves on it like we
know like you know you I think a very we
should talk about evolves there's a
bunch of learnings on this uh and and
how to build evolves into the fabric of
the company. But but anyway, I I I think
it's more of like you have to decompose
the problem a little bit.
>> Yeah. My favorite thing about EVELs is
uh just running crossmodal evals against
each other.
>> So, one of the things that we're doing
that I I I
is related, but I think it's really fun,
which is how do you have
every single human interaction in the
company becoming an evolve when you have
an AI agent. So for example, we have the
on boarding on boarding agents doing
something and then you have a team that
actually goes in and looks at KYC
exceptions that the model can't figure
out.
How to make that a breaking change and
and okay like this this manual
interaction will become an evolve case.
You know we have an expense agent in in
Brex whenever someone has a conversation
with the agent that is that flags an
issue or or a bug or or or or something
that feels like the conversation didn't
go as smoothly that creates a bug. that
bug triggers an agent that's going to go
in and modify the codebase and the
prompts and everything to make that
evolve pass. And if that doesn't break,
then engineer is gonna go in and figure
out how to make that pass because the
goal at the end I think is to make the
whole thing a self re a self-learning
system, right? And I think the a lot of
what I see with with companies is they
spend a lot of time getting an agent
working but never thinking how to make
the agent improve every day. And I think
that's like always the biggest unlock. a
dream cycle sees everything every night
>> and then it's like oh what's going on
there I need to put this over here what
actually happened is there a pattern how
do I recause this
>> so how to how to how to bake the dream
cycle into the products and into the
agent into the things you ship
>> my favorite thing right now is I'm
building like three or four agents for
my friends
>> oh interesting
>> and some of it is like this is a user
research for me for GBrain because it's
like I have one it's working really well
I have 350,000 markdown pages in there
now. What a crazy like I thought it was
this wild, you know, pie in the sky
thing and it's like it's h it's going to
happen in our lifetimes.
>> You know, I remember when um when
Neuralink came out and I used to think
about it. I was like I I don't get it.
Like I was like, "Yeah, of course I get
it conceptually, but why is it a thing?"
And then now I use AI and you're like,
"Yeah,
>> yeah, makes sense. Makes sense.
>> I'm the bottleneck."
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Typing is so slow. I don't know if you
use a lot of adaptation. I
>> I I use a lot. My most used developer
developer UI right now is like voice
memos to open cloth. I said this before
like it was maybe accidental but I
actually just really love the fact that
like Telegram works so well with um
because it's forced me to just put more
stuff like make the agent more
intelligent so that you can do more
stuff via voice memos because you have
to sort of fight the natural instinct as
like a traditional developer where
you're like oh like I can't quite do
this or it doesn't do this I need to go
like build more client or more UI or
like more functionality for it. Foxcon.
Yeah.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> No, just let it do what it wants to do.
Give it some context and it'll just
think about, you know, oh, like actually
what about this?
>> I think a lot of the the work to your
point is the
how do you organize the context for the
model and and you can use the model to
help, but but that is that is that is
the that is the bottleneck for for most
things.
>> Once you have the context in there, it's
actually you can do some pretty crazy
stuff like uh my favorite new feature.
>> I saw you brain LSD.
>> Yeah, LSD. Yeah. [laughter]
lateral synactic drift.
>> So you you just bump the temperature on
the search.
>> It's not just that. So you have the
vectors, right? And so you know if you
think about what conventional ideas are
like most people give you like oh well
this idea with this idea and it's like
kind of like in this cone LSD mode
actually says you cannot combine
concepts that are within this cone. They
actually must be uh orthogonal or just
like rand like feeling seemingly random.
And then it'll try like, you know,
randomly hundreds of these combinations.
Yeah.
>> And then it'll rank order them into uh
the ones that are actually the most
coherent. Yeah. And then if you do like
a hundred of them, actually like the top
five tend to be banger tweets.
>> You know what's crazy is like a I didn't
tell Alfred Express to be dry. I went I
actually had like chat GPT generate like
the soul file. It was just like based on
like everything you know about me, all
the interactions here like generate like
a soul MD for like my open core agent.
and it was so unairringly like accurate
[laughter]
about like kind of what I would want
from like a an agent and I was like,
"Oh, damn. These models know a lot about
us."
>> My open clock got really interesting
once I uh I I just ingested my 60 gig um
Google takeout. I mean, you have to
write a bunch of um haiku code to like
only get the emails that are actually
real. But, you know, there's like
>> extract like 4,000 emails out of 60 gigs
that actually matter. But like those are
like oh actually like a lot of your
thinking and you know the consequential
moments of your life. So Pedro thank you
so much for being with us. I mean you're
by far one of the most AI pill farthest
out on the edge but also very practical
CEOs who is you know playing with this
stuff and actually building it yourself.
What would you say to people watching
who are founders who who want to be
founders? you know, I I think that you
are sort of the model for the way people
should start companies and run them. Um,
with AI as your SLN buddy,
>> I I really can't stop thinking about the
electricity analogy, which is, you know,
you're standing there's a 200year
timeline of human history. There's a
point in time where electricity was
invented. It sucked in the beginning or
six months after that point. What do you
do differently? Knowing everything that
would be true about electricity. Uh,
knowing that data centers will consume
electricity and and even AI, right?
Well, you do a lot of things
differently, I think. So, I think that's
one of just just marveling at the
possibility of the exact moment in time
we're now. Um I think the second is like
have a boastit on your computer which is
you wake up whatever problem you have in
your life why can't you solve it with AI
and just like start there and and 80%
yeah you can use a chatbot but the 20%
that you can't figure out why and go
build something that makes you solve
that problem less so because of the
because of the immediate usefulness that
solving that thing at scale will have
but because it gives you a texture and a
feel for the possibilities of the
technology which are really hard if
you're not playing with it every day.
And and maybe the third thing is like I
I think it's like just measure your
token consumption and how much you're
just pushing the the the limits of the
company and starting with the premise of
like okay why can't it just be one
person like why can't it just be me that
to that builds the whole thing and
you're going to probably face a wall of
the uh the elements of you know what
what models can and cannot do but at a
limit I think the question is uh you
know how do you spend your time on the
things that only you can do as a founder
and these things to me are number one
which problems are for solving and two
uh and the sort of the choice thing we
talked about and the second thing is
okay given that the given these choices
what are the limitations of an LLM uh
that they still cannot do and I have to
go in and do that those those things
myself but almost uh you know to some
degree you're working for the LM to some
point uh and and and and if you're in a
bigger company you're in a turnaround to
put the LM as almost the founder and the
CEO and you're you're you're almost
architecting the entire company around
that idea but I early on. Uh so much of
it is, you know, choosing what matters,
talking to customers, injecting the
signal that the models don't have, and
just, you know, rebuilding it the way
you would do it in 2026 with electricity
being 6 months old.
>> Thanks, Pedro. This is awesome.
>> Yeah. Thanks for having me. I appreciate
it.
>> Thanks for coming.
[music]