Title: Why Robotics Still Isn't Solved - But Could Be Soon | YC Paper Club
Video ID: myDCd0hNqQU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=myDCd0hNqQU
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-08-08T14:00:16Z
Duration: PT1H24M12S
Views: 71370
Likes: 1644
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 2549

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
>> Welcome to YC Paper Club.
How are you guys doing today?
Woo.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. How do you guys like this one?
We're We're We're going to change it
every time now. So So today it's
actually YC Robotics Club. Okay. So this
is the 10th year of next year robotics
will be solved that I've encountered in
my career.
Um I remember when AlphaGo came out 10
years ago, everyone said next year, you
know, clearly we have the algorithm. All
we need to do is scale it up. And then
Mujoco came, and then we had, you know,
literally in in 3,000 uh iterations
where we we can train a robot to
uh to walk. This is quite amazing.
Clearly next year robotics is going to
be solved. This time it's different, all
right? We've figured out UMi uh data
collection, okay?
Uh and so the Aloha was like the big
breakout. Everyone thought next year
we're going to have robotics. Now, I
mean, look at this. We can water
[snorts] our plants, we can fix our bike
up, we can
do my Keurig here.
>> [laughter]
>> Even shave me, right?
We have the algorithm. All we need to do
is scale it up. And then 2026 was
promised. They promised me that this
would be the year of of the robots. I
was very convinced. I I read the
diffusion policy paper. I even played
around with it a little bit myself. I'm
like, this is surely the year of the
robotics. We have multi-step reasoning.
This is like totally going to happen.
Um we have VLAs. They're amazing.
Um you just need teleops data, and then
you're good to go.
Um and I would say honestly it were
halfway through 2026, and you still
can't Yeah, you can pre-order Neo 1X. Um
I can't buy a Pi or Figure robot just
yet. Um we've had some success in work
cells, but Rosie the robot is still not
here. Um, and I I you know, we'll we
have 6 months left. It's only July. So,
maybe maybe it will be. Maybe I'll be
wrong. But, it's definitely the year of
the demos. I know that for certain.
So, the reason why is because, you know,
raise your hand if you've ever done
teleops collect data collection.
Is it easy or hard?
I mean, it's remarkably hard. You
especially if you have this, you know,
uh uh little gripper thing that's all
you have. You have the wrist cameras and
all that stuff. It's extremely
difficult. It's very very finicky.
Um, and if we're relying on this type of
data
as and we need to scale that up like
crazy, um,
then it's it we're kind of doomed. And
so, I would I kind of think about it in
these four, there's probably more, but
at least these four walls that we have
to scale and and get over. And we really
haven't yet. And so, the first one is
physical real-world modeling. It you if
you take these video models and you uh
deploy them to, let's say, drive a car
and you you're playing you're doing the
the world models you know, paper by by
Jürgen Schmidhuber or the the
Dannigar uh Hafner Dreamer V1, 2, 3, 4.
And you do this game and you're playing
play Doom in the simulated game. In the
real world, it really doesn't respect
physics. And so, the those models don't
respect physics all that well. And so,
if you're driving a car in that in that
simulated world and you drive into like,
you know, a grocery store or Whole
Foods, it magically just kind of turns
into a highway and then you don't crash.
And so, like it doesn't really respect
the the the real-world physics. And then
and it definitely doesn't uh and so,
that's all called the sim-to-real gap
and we really haven't figured out how to
solve the sim-to-real gap. Um,
deformable objects uh uh
even worse is that's just
you're determining the transition
function from ST to ST + 1, if you
condition further on the action, then it
really doesn't work and you need a lot
of data for to support that action
conditioning. So, if you you're trying
to estimate the dynamics function T of
ST + 1 condition upon both figure out
some course representation. Nico's
actually here that we worked in 2020
13 on
feature pyramid networks for our little
robotic policy bot war simulation way
back when. Um, but still though that was
to solve this giant Q matrix that we
would have some linear thing with the
pyramids. So, representation for your
action space is actually like a
completely unsolved thing if you want to
learn quickly.
And then this is the most important one
that I don't think is talked about
enough. The sensory motor issue. Uh, we
have these
nerve endings that that can do so much.
We can detect the normal force, we can
detect the tangent force, we can detect
moisture, temperature, vibration, we can
estimate the coefficient of friction,
and it's
everywhere.
All over our bodies. And these robots
don't have that. They have like one
little coin FT
on each fingertip, and that's like all
you got in like the best case. And maybe
you have a wrist camera here, and like
that's kind of like the the the state of
the art. And so, if you talk to
neuroscientists about this, it's
actually like incredible how good we are
at building world models without vision.
So, if I you've ever tried to find a
charger in your backpack and you put
your hand in your backpack and you're
feeling around, you kind of can
tell exactly what's in your backpack
just by feeling around. You don't even
need eyes. And so, there's no way we
have robots that can do that now cuz we
don't have an epidermis. And so, I think
that that's that is a really important
thing.
If you ever tried to, you know, tie your
hockey skates
when it's really really cold out, like
you start to see the policy
uh
And you're like, I can't even untie my
skates cuz my hands are too cold. And
the last one that really only robotics
robotics people will really understand,
people that have deployed real robotics
for long periods of time, there's this
embodiment drift.
And so, in this state, if I take this
action, this is how much force is
actually going to be applied, and the
actuators get dust in them, they get
corroded, they get may have been in if
they're in like a, you know, uh um near
the ocean, they may have some corrosion,
some rust, and they just don't work as
well. And especially true in
self-driving car, this is like very real
issues. When I push the gas um on my
like Toyota Prius,
uh it's variable how much I'm going to
get, and that shifts over time. Um and
the amount of power you get out of a
battery over time also also shifts over
time. And so, uh
these are then you have to retrain your
entire VLA. And so, like cuz it's not
mapping to the the teleop's data is
almost um
uh uh stale, and you have to recollect
it. And so, these are very real
challenges that we don't have answers to
until tonight.
We have some uh
some great talkers, some great talks
tonight. Uh we have uh Marcel who is a
PhD in Chelsea Finn's lab, and he's
going to talk about some of the cool
work that he did at uh Physical
Intelligence. Uh we have uh Milan Ganai
who's a PhD student uh with Marco Pavone
and Clark Barrett, uh currently working
at Waymo. And then we have uh Tyler who
uh
is doing his PhD with Jenette and Karen.
And Nico who's one of my close friends
from
uh
2012 when I was doing my WEP WE masters
um the and founder of this cool company
called Rerun, and he's going to talk
about some of the practicalities of data
uh and how do you actually uh um deploy
these these robotics.
And then we have Bill
and Guanming who's um
uh founders of this really cool company
YC company called General Instinct.
Uh going to be talking about uh world
action models, real-time world action
models, uh previous research experience
at DeepMind. And so, it's a great
lineup. Thank you guys very much. Please
welcome some of our our speakers here.
>> [applause]
>> Then my side will come up.
>> I'm Marcel. I'm a PhD student at
Stanford, and today I'm very excited to
present to you some of the work that I
did during my internship at Physical
Intelligence. Um and we call this system
MEM, that is multi-scale embodied
memory. So, I want to start with like
some of the These are some of the
policies that we trained when I was uh
during during my internship there at
Physical Intelligence, and we're trying
to solve these like robot Olympic tasks.
And as you can see, they are actually
like quite dexterous tasks. You can see
the robots um This is all fully
autonomous. You can see the robots
unlocking blocks, um make like folding
clothes that were inside out, making a
uh butter um peanut butter sandwich. And
it's actually like very impressive to
me, right? Like these they are super
dexterous and all. But if you see,
actually the longest of these tasks is
like about 2 minutes long. But ideally,
when I think about what I would want my
robots to do is like I would want them,
for example, to be able to manufacture
something, to be able to like clean a
full bed, which is going to involve uh
full bedroom, which is going to involve
like making the bed, um folding clothes,
like a super long task, right? Or for
example, cooking a full meal, including
like cleaning the kitchen and all. And
when we think about, "Okay, but what do
we need in order to solve these like
very long horizon tasks in robotics
today?" I can think about like a few
things as, for example, being able to
keep track of task progress,
um being able to keep track of time, but
also having like very reliable
dexterity, and dexterity that can
actually adapt in context in case that
the robot like finds a new scenario and
makes a mistake, it should be able to
adapt to it, right? Um and a few more
things probably. But my claim is that in
order to obtain all of these all of
these insights, we actually need to add
memory into our policies. So, memory is
kind of uh for me is a kind of very
necessary thing for this for solving
this long horizon task. However, if we
look at most policies like bio 5, Groot,
all of these policies actually don't
have any memory, um which means that
basically at every time step the robot
will obtain like a new set of of
observations and has absolutely no
context of what happened before. And
here I can show a couple a couple
examples of what happens when you train
these policies without any memory. So,
on the left you're going to see a robot
that is washing the dishes and just like
has no context of how long it has been
washing the dishes, so it just keeps
like washing forever. Or on the right
you have one where like the robot is
cooking a grilled cheese, but again it
has no context that it that how long it
has been there and it becomes like fully
burnt. Um
but then you might ask, "Okay, like why
are we not adding memory into the into
the policies, right?" And well, one of
these is that it is hard. So, I'm going
to take a small detour at another paper
that we wrote last year where we like
tried to we basically observed that
there's two main problems. Um one is
effectiveness. It's basically when we
add memory into these policies, um they
actually perform a little bit worse
because of distribution shifts and lack
of data. Um and an efficiency problem,
which basically means that when we
increase the context for the robot
policies, um this actually becomes much
more resource intensive. So, then you're
going to get like much longer training
time and it's going to be also much
longer to run inference. Okay, so having
said this, what do we propose and what
is our solution, right? So, we propose
compression. Um and we take this
basically this model that is we're going
to decompose our robot policies into two
parts. One that is going to be a
high-level policy that basically tells
the the low-level policy which is the
next step that it should take. And then
we have a VLA like a low-level policy
that is going to actually execute the
robot actions. And then we're going to
decompose the memory into two different
types. One that is going to be short
context and it's going to be like some
dense frames that are needed for like
the actual dexterous manipulation and
it's going to be fed into the low-level
policy. And then we're going to have a
long context memory. There's going to be
basically a compressed language
representation and of the last uh few
minutes and it's going to go into the
into the high-level policy. I don't want
to go too much into details, but I'll
I'll give an overview of like how do we
add this short-term uh visual memory?
So, our idea here was to design a new
encoder that is based on the VIT, but
instead of just taking a taking a single
frame, we're actually also going to add
some attention temporal layers and we're
going to drop all of the all of the
tokens except the current image, which
should have all of the information
necessary there because of this uh
temporal attention. And then you
basically get a lot of of compression.
And then some of the reasons why this
architecture is actually quite good is
because first, like you have an easy VIT
initialization since only now the
temporal attention is new. We actually
get to compress again this image
sequence and like we reduce the number
of tokens and because of this you get
fast inference. And now I want to show
you like what task can we actually solve
with this short-term um like with this
short-term dense memory. So, here we
have our main flagship task that we did
when I when I was at Physical
Intelligence and it was like making this
grilled cheese. So, it's going to be
able to like do all of the dexterous
parts, but also be able to wait for as
long as needed um in order for the
grilled cheese to not be burned. Um but
we also can get to solve some other
types of tasks such as here that maybe
they seem like they wouldn't need memory
such as unloading groceries from a from
a grocery bag, but here you actually
only see the items inside with the with
the wrist camera sometimes. So, you
actually need to remember where the
items are and how many items there are.
Or another example is like cleaning
cleaning a window where again you need
memory in order to not stay there
forever. So now I talked about how to
add memory into the low-level policy,
and next I will talk about how do we add
the longer longer-term memory into the
high-level policy. So this the the
technique that we proposed, which
basically consists in kind of a
the high-level policy predicting a
recurrent
memories, like memory scratchpad
basically. It's going to
It's basically going to keep track of
everything that has happened, and then
whatever its prediction was is going to
be fed again into the high-level policy,
and like this it can keep explaining
like what has happened before and what
it can remember also what happened. So
this actually like much more much more
compressed representation than images,
since text uses like way less tokens
than images. So this great for for
training. It is also quite physically
accurate because the policy is going to
be able to modify its memory with
whatever had has happened. And it is
also less prone to distribution shifts.
So let me show you here like what can we
actually solve with this with this
long-term memory. And here we
show a task that like takes up to like
tens of minutes,
and it actually is going to prepare all
of the items for for making a for
preparing a recipe.
Just for the sake of time I'll I'll skip
over it, but
yeah, something nice is that you can
actually see the memory string that is
predicted in the on the green box. We
also compare with a bunch of different
baselines such as no memory, different
types of memory, and we also get to beat
here the the state of the art. Something
that I want to that I that I'm
especially excited about when with
regards with memory is it's it's the
that actually when we add memory into
VLAs, we're going to be able to get this
property of in-context adaptation, and
it's actually something that is really
lacking right now into VLAs, and I think
it can be super promising in the future.
So let me show you what this corresponds
to. Here we have some policies no memory
like they have no memory at all at all
and you're going to see that they are
going to keep making the same mistake
over and over and they are incapable of
reacting to the mistake they did. So,
like it's just going to be stuck in a
loop forever and never going to be able
to to adapt. So, here it's trying to
open the fridge or picking these
chopsticks forever. But actually now
when we add memory, we're going to see
that the robot policies are going to
make a mistake in the first time right
like just maybe they have some bad
priors or something, but they are going
to actually be able to see this mistake
and react to it. So, for the chopstick
it like made a mistake, but then it's
going to go go lower to pick it up and
for opening the fridge similarly it's
going to switch sides
um
to correct its mistake. I think this is
something that is very very lacking now
from the robot policies that I'm super
excited about
um the future with like VLAs with
memory. Having said this um yeah, this
was a huge effort at physical
intelligence with a bunch of
collaborators that I'm super thankful
with. I just wanted to point out Carl
who was the co-first author here, but
then Homer, Sergey, Chelsea, and Danny
for all their help. Please let me know
if you have any questions.
>> [applause]
>> Thank you for the presentation. I was
curious about the the long-term memory
that you were talking about. If it's
only represented in the textual space,
how did you figure out the right
information
to actually you know give to the policy?
>> Yeah, that's that's honestly that's an
awesome question. So, right here we
train our our high-level policies with
SFD. So, we had to annotate all of our
data, but it was
that's a very good point because
basically we had to
think beforehand what information we
think is important here and we had to
tell our annotators, okay like you know,
you need to keep track of all of these
things because this is what is
important. But I think that some of the
follow-up works that I'm thinking about
and I think like everyone should like
think about it and all is how can you
could you for example do reinforcement
learning on this memory space, right? In
order in order to be able to know what
is the right information to keep track
of. Um but at least the first proof of
concept with SFT, right?
>> Yeah, exactly. I think that was going to
be my suggestion, too. You know, like
figuring out the right message to store,
the memory, the right things to recall.
>> Yeah.
>> And a follow-up question to that was,
how are you actually
right now storing that information? It's
It's represented in textual space, but
like how is it actually used in
inference time when you actually use to
take actions?
>> So, it's I mean it's a fairly short
text, so this can all be kept in in RAM
and then like you just feed it as normal
text tokens to the to the VLA. Yeah.
>> So, one question, when you extract the
your task into a high-level text
description, how you make sure that the
task itself is generalized enough to
handle different environments? Like when
you make an omelet, there are different
versions of omelet, right? And also how
does this memory affect the number of
episodes you need to train for a novel
task?
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh great point. So,
for the Here I don't show the the
examples, but we actually give some
quite the the the like detailed
descriptions of the task. For example,
for the preparing the ingredients or for
making a recipe and everything, you give
you tell exactly where the items are,
like what are the exact items for making
for making a pizza, for example, and all
these. So, that is very detailed.
Something good about this is that the
high-level policy is a VLM trained with
internet data, so it actually doesn't
need that much data in order to
generalize well. And the good thing is
that the VLA is like completely separate
um and doesn't need to like
we need to train it per task, right? To
be able to do things in the kitchen and
all these.
Um but if you make the task more
complicated, the VLA is still only
receiving a small like text description
of what it should do next. Um
so, at least we don't have to collect
that much robot data with like the
complexity.
>> Really appreciate the talk.
So, your embedding for the memory is
textual descriptions, but it also seems
like you could have solved the problem
with just adding, for example, for doing
a grilled cheese, just adding time. And
so, it seems that training model policy
just only based on textual descriptions
like limits the representation space for
what that memory can describe and
potentially constraints that have you
thought about actually expanding the
memory representation or looking at
other approaches for that?
>> I I'm I tried to think about how do
humans, right, even like keep track of
all their memory and it's definitely not
in text space.
Um but I think like something that is
quite hard and like I feel we haven't
really managed to do like very well.
Ideally, we would have a latent
embedding that would like just keep
track of all the memory.
Um
but just with text, you can actually put
a very strong bias there and not be able
to supervise it, be able to debug it and
everything, uh which just makes it right
now the most practical way to do it.
But, yeah, I'm very excited to like try
to explore this further and can like
some latent, for example, work there.
>> All right, thank you, Marcel.
>> Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> So, yeah. Um
PhD student at Stanford,
uh research at AWS and Waymo. And so,
I'll be talking about how can we move
toward robots that teach themselves how
to reason. You're probably familiar with
vision action models, but just a quick
primer. Um VLAs are a powerful uh class
of generalist policies. Probably seen
them in demos for manipulation like RT-2
and Pi or even self-driving. Uh maybe
you've driven a Waymo or you've been on
a Waymo um or Alpaca which is from
Nvidia. So, how exactly are VLAs
trained? So, you take um a vision
language model. Um these are multimodal
models trained with an internet scale of
um visual and textual priors. And then,
this can be like Gemini or Quinn, and
you continue training them on relatively
scarce robotics data sets. And so, this
can be teleop for manipulation or maybe
self-driving. Um someone has driven a
car and recorded that. And then, you end
up with a VLAI, which takes as input an
image or some perception feature, maybe
language um instruction prompts, and
learns to generate actions which can be
executed on. So, like steering commands
or end effector position. And so, now
there's this recent trend of
leveraging and doing embodied reasoning
for better action prediction. The idea
being similar to chain of thought for
the LLM land, where you go from question
to answer by um explicitly providing
some sort of logical steps. Um and so,
why are we interested in chain of or
embodied reasoning in the form of chain
of thought? The idea is that there's not
a lot of data in robotics. Um it's data
scarce. And so, any form of signal um
that you can use to augment your data
set um is very valuable. So, you can
start injecting different types of
annotations, and that can help you um
improve action generation and whatnot.
So, you got richer training signal
signal with um reasoning. But also,
because this is in text, um as a human,
you can go and read it. So, if you're
trying to decipher, "What was the reason
for uh why a robot made a particular
decision?" you can actually read through
uh the chain of thought trace. Uh to
this end, I'll be talking about our
recent work published at Robotics
Science and Systems Conference uh this
year called Self-Supervised
Bootstrapping of Action Predictive
Embodied Reasoning. And so, we're really
interested in this question of what
should we be reasoning about?
Specifically, what should particular
embodiments and form factors reason
about? So, what makes good embodied
reasoning a hard question, um but I'll
decompose it into two problems. One is
the grounding problem. Um we don't have
um this sort of uh oracle source of
reasoning data saying that just train on
this reasoning data, and uh you'll get a
good reasoning VLAI. There it's not
clear what we should be reasoning about
Uh um if there exist some traces on the
internet just like there was some
pre-training documents for a text or
captions for image. That doesn't exist
for robotics. Um second is where's the
oracle source of the model? You can't
just pry open a human's brain and figure
out how they made a decision um from an
image uh to the movements in their
fingertips. So that's why I like to uh
show this image of a chicken and egg
problem which is where's the source of
uh the model and the oracle source of
the data. The second is associated with
verbosity. So there are different types
of reasoning. You can be planning,
right? So you can say go to the pepper
or pick up the pepper and so on. Um
maybe you you would be reasoning in in
the form of perceptual um traces. So
this can look like visible object lists
so lists of bounding boxes of all the
objects in your scene um or even gripper
position. What's the position of the end
effector or what's the position of your
car on the road? But the question is
should we be planning at every step or
is that verbose because latency is a big
problem in robotics. So it's not clear
if we should be planning or should we
analyze every single object in the scene
or is that distracting and could mislead
us in action prediction? And similarly
is gripper position reasoning action
predictive um or is it misleading? All
of these questions can be summarized
into this one research question of how
does textual reasoning for specific um
form factors and embodiments look like?
And so that's where our approach comes
in. It's called RNB encore uh which is
short for refined and bootstrap
embodiment specific chain of thought
reasoning. This is a self-improving
pre-training cycle for embodied
reasoning VLAs. And so the insight is
because we're claiming that reasoning is
sort of this black box for robotics, um
we treat this as an unobserved latent
variable for the observed context and
action. And by doing so we can leverage
the sort of theoretical framework um
called variational inference. So how
does this look? There are two high-level
components. So one is a reasoning
proposer. You can think of this as a
annotator model, um, which proposes for
a given context, for a given
demonstration, um, various types of
proposed reasoning. So, it's asking the
question, is visible object and move
reasoning a useful type of reasoning, or
should you be reasoning about plans, um,
and gripper position, or maybe visible
object and subtask reasoning? What's the
sort of reasoning, um, or annotations,
or good data that you should be
producing before your actions?
And then the second component is a
reasoning validator. The idea is that
this is um, scoring metric that is based
on the theoretical ground of variational
inference. Um, there's all this theory
that we've proved in the paper, but uh,
to concisely summarize it, um, there's
there's three main things that
main parts to, uh, the score. So, one is
concision, ensuring that uh, your
reasoning trace is um, short and not,
you know, too verbose. Um, the second
is, um, non-trivial. So, this is some
sort of encouragement of, uh,
generalization uh, in the reasoning
behavior. The third one, which is most
important, is action predictiveness.
This ensures whether that reasoning
trace or that annotation is grounded in
that embodiment.
So, at the end of the day, you score all
these reasoning traces, and you end up
with, uh, and you resample, and you end
up with a new data set of synthetic, but
action-aligned, embodiment-aligned
reasoning.
So, you can analyze this reasoning data
set, you can understand, okay, this is
the good type of reasoning, and this is
not. But, more, uh, importantly, is you
can retrain your embodied reasoning VLA,
and have a better, um,
and more robust, uh, policy. So, we
tried our pre-training cycle on a bunch
of, uh, embodiments. So, we look into
obviously manipulation. So, we pretrain,
uh, embodied reasoning manipulation
VLAs. We find that move reasoning and
gripper or move and gripper position in,
uh, position type of reasoning is very
useful. Whereas, perceptual reasoning is
not very useful, so we're able to prune
that out, um, and we improve success
rate because we were having this sort of
action aligned
um, form of reasoning. We look into more
about the question why perceptual
reasoning is not useful. Uh, we we find
out that there's a lot of distracting
objects in many of these scenes. And so
by pruning out using our pre-training
cycle, we can actually look into what is
a good way to improve your annotation
data quality. So questions about
improving and task saliency of your
traces and the data that uh, you used to
collect and annotate. Um, thereby uh,
not only improving success rate, but
also this term of like object
criticality rate or task saliency rate.
We also test this uh, entire
pre-training cycle for hardware uh,
manipulation uh, VLAs. And so we're able
to have improved out of distribution
performance particularly on objects uh,
novel um, target objects or even uh,
cluttered scenes. And we also pre-train
legged locomotion navigation models. Uh,
we find that reasoning about structural
affordances and movements are way more
important than reasoning about terrains
and counterfactuals. And then we also
use our uh, improve our cycle for
refining human annotations for
self-driving. Um,
and so there's a lot of garbage data
that could be out there. And so the idea
is that with um, our approach you can
remove a lot of the human uh,
annotations that are not very useful.
Um, and so we're able to observe that
meta action and visible objects and
perceptual reasoning's useful. Whereas
our approach can prune out sort of
hallucinated experiences um, thereby
lowering the L2 path errors and uh,
performance metrics like collision
rates.
So takeaways, selective reasoning is way
more important than exhaustive reasoning
um, even if that reasoning is valid,
it's not necessarily useful. Second is
that self-supervised bootstrapping
works. This is really important to enter
into that chicken and egg problem of
like the oracle source of model and
reasoning data. And third, we show uh,
the approach generalizes across
embodiments like manipulation,
navigation, driving um, as well as VLA
sizes from 1 billion to 30 billion
parameter models. We basically are
addressing this question, how should an
embodied agent reason? And we argue that
embodied reasoning is not a fixed
template that should be applied
uniformly, but rather some a resource
that should be discovered, deployed, and
budgeted carefully. We are very excited
about this problem about how we can
deploy embodied intelligence. We're very
excited about problems like data
quality, how can we recover from
failures, how do we adapt to novel
scenes, and specialize in them. So, if
you're interested in some of these
questions, feel free to reach out. We're
excited for collaborations. We would
like to help you on problems on reducing
the friction of deploying embodied
intelligence
for everyday tasks. So, if you're
interested in reaching out to us, you
can scan the QR code on the right,
and more details about R&B on core,
including the website, models, code,
papers on the left.
>> [applause]
>> Um, how do you think about
the conversation we had where it's like,
you know, a dog is not going is figuring
out all of this, but not in token space.
And so, how do you think about this
without using tokens?
>> For Oh, okay. So, I think there's all
sorts of like latent reasoning
capabilities where the model can sort of
navigate in its sort of continuous space
of understanding
in its own unhindered
by
you know, the textual format. And this
requires good architecture and theory
for developing this sort of continuous
reasoning. But, there are ways of if if
I'm understanding your question
correctly, non-textual reasoning.
And I think some of these approaches can
really help with that. The idea of here
is that we want to leverage particular
priors
that exist especially with LLMs and VLMs
where there's huge amounts of data out
there. We want to use those priors for
data scarce regimes
like robotics.
>> Wanted to understand what's the thesis
behind using reasoning for autonomous
vehicles because there's already sort of
the streaming latency problem which is
even more exacerbated in the case of
AV. So in that case like is your
argument just that it would help build
better self-supervised data?
Or
is there something more there
that can be leveraged for better
performance?
>> Absolutely. So latency is a big question
which we actually
address in this paper.
Our main claim over here is that
reasoning can help introduce priors into
the model.
So this is you can think of this almost
like co-training data where instead of
just training on robotics
demonstrations, you can co-train and
use textual reasoning as good
annotations to help it. But we actually
show that
we have this approach called action
forcing
where you can drop the reasoning during
inference time. So you don't have the
inference latency problem but at the
same time you can still leverage or
extract that the enhancements from the
sort of textual annotations and
reasoning.
So so you can get the best of both
worlds.
>> And a follow up to that is do you see
drift
like in terms of state space? So you
reason about something the state has
moved now. So the reasoning is no longer
relevant or can damage future actions
that the model might take. Do you see
situations like that as well?
>> So the reasoning happens is supposed to
is makes assumption that's happening in
real time. So it's based on the current
image
and the current instruction. And so the
drift isn't necessarily a problem that's
that's going to fundamentally appear in
here. Yeah.
>> Thank you so much. I just had a minor
point.
When you were talking about pruning sort
of things that weren't too useful for
model, you made a point on how
counterfactuals weren't too useful in
terms of better reasoning if if if I'm
right. Could you maybe just you know,
explain a little bit more as to exactly
where where you were going with that?
>> Yeah. So, um
what the claims that are being made
about this is one
focus on the particular benchmark that
we were working on.
It isn't to say particular types of
reasoning shouldn't ever be done and
should be removed. But it is to say that
there are certain types of reasoning
that don't need to happen at every
single moment. So, to give you an
example, if there's nothing novel or
interesting happening in the scene like
a lot of driving self-driving is just
driving a straight line. So, and there's
nothing around you and so there's no
interesting
counterfactuals
that you might explore. But even plan
reasoning is I had mentioned earlier
plan reasoning that appeared to be quite
useful
or it seems that it might be useful to
plan ahead.
But you won't want you don't want to be
planning at every single step because
it's quite redundant.
>> Thank you, Milan.
>> Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> Hi everyone. My name is Tyler Lum and
I'm excited to present our work
Sim-to-Real. So, let me start with what
Sim-to-Real can do.
Turn the volume here.
So, every clip here is at 1x speed and
this is a single policy that is working
zero-shot
meaning it never saw any of these tools
or tasks during training.
We do not need to retrain for a brush or
hammer or a new target behavior.
And many tasks like the screwdriver
spinning are very dextrous. They would
really require a multi-fingered hand
that just really wouldn't be possible
with a parallel jaw gripper.
The policy is very fast and reactive.
It runs at 60 hertz and simultaneously
controls both the 22 degree-of-freedom
hand and 7 degree-of-freedom arm. And I
also want to highlight that the level of
dexterity is very difficult to
demonstrate through teleoperation here.
So, with that preview
I want to give a little bit of context.
So, teleoperation for dexterous hands
has increasingly been used to collect
demonstrations for imitation learning.
But, highly dexterous actions remain
difficult to demonstrate reliably and at
scale. In the video on the right, even
this simple in-hand rotation task
requires slow, deliberate control from
the human because of the embodiment
mismatch and limited force feedback,
which make precise contact regulation
very difficult. So, rather than learning
the policy from teleoperation,
we train it entirely in simulation using
sim-to-real reinforcement learning.
So, sim-to-real reinforcement learning
uses GPU-accelerated simulation to run
tens of thousands of robots in parallel
and generate experience about a thousand
times faster than real time.
This allows us to scale data collection
with compute rather than human effort
and collect decades of interaction data
in only a few days.
The result is extreme dexterity because
it is not just imitating demonstrations,
but is optimizing for reward-maximizing
behaviors.
These policies are then deployed in the
real world, demonstrating impressive
dexterous behaviors that would be very
difficult to teleoperate. These videos
are from Dextreme, which is one of the
first works to demonstrate the
effectiveness of this approach for
dexterous manipulation. This task isn't
particularly particularly
useful-looking, but it's a definitely
impressive demonstration of dexterity.
But, most prior works in this space
learn a separate policy for each
particular skill. So, one for grasping,
one for reorientation, another for
object spinning, and another for tool
use.
Each new behavior typically requires a
round of new reward design, new
task-specific engineering, and another
round of training.
So, we instead ask, can we train a
single policy just once and have it
perform all of these different tasks and
skills?
So, what we really want is a single
policy that controls both the hand and
arm through the full sequence. It first
grasps the brush,
reorients it within the hand,
and finally uses it to sweep the
objects.
And we want this all from a single
policy, so we don't need to do any
manual switching between separate
policies.
Our key insight is that we can unify
dexterous tool manipulation as goal
reaching. So the policy doesn't need a
task label such as sweeping or
hammering.
It only needs to move the object from
its current pose to the desired pose. So
thus we train a a goal conditioned
policy that can move arbitrary objects
through a sequence of desired goal
poses, visualized here in green, and we
find that this is a very general
objective for a wide range of
manipulation tasks.
So at train time, we procedurally
generate primitive objects in
simulation,
sample random goals, and train a goal
conditioned policy with massively
parallel RL in simulation
to manipulate random objects to these
random goals. And of course, there are
many details to get right here. The
system identification, domain
randomization, RL algorithm details to
get exploration right. Um we're going to
skip all of that for now, but feel free
to ask questions in the Q&A.
But then at inference time, we need to
specify the sequence of goal poses,
which can come from any source. And in
this work, we choose to condition the
policy on a human video demonstration.
So we use foundation pose and SAM to
extract the sequence of goal poses to
track, and then the RL policy tracks
these goals one by one in a 60 Hz
control loop. And I really want to
highlight here that the human video is
not providing robot actions, and it's
not used to train or fine-tune the
policy. It only specifies the desired
object trajectory for the frozen policy
to track.
So concretely, the policy takes in
proprioception, the current object pose,
a bounding box of where it should be
grasped, and the current goal pose.
It runs them through an LSTM policy, and
then outputs joint position targets for
the full hand and arm.
And this policy again is not limited to
just sweeping with brushes. This single
policy works zero-shot across novel
tools and tasks never seen during
training.
So, what's really nice about this is
that a new task simply becomes a new
sequence of goal poses rather than a new
training run.
So, conceptually, the trajectory acts
kind of like a task prompt that we can
provide at inference time for a frozen
policy, allowing us to perform a new
task on a new object in minutes instead
of hours or days. So, we evaluate the
same frozen policy across 12 unseen
tools and target behaviors and achieve
substantial task progress across every
tool family, particularly those with
long handles. Performance is weaker on
heavier tools which are easier to drop
and also for smaller objects, but this
really because the post tracker has a
lot of problems when it gets very
occluded. So, next, we want to measure
train and test correlation. So, our goal
is to see how well our training
objective supports downstream test
success. On the left, we show training
objects consisting of primitive objects
and random goals. On the right, we show
our test objects with human demonstrated
trajectories. So, we evaluate
checkpoints throughout training and as
the policy improves on the generic
goal-reaching task with primitive
objects shown on the left, performance
on unseen tools and human demonstrated
trajectories on the right sharply rises.
This validates that Sim2Real training
objective with random objects and random
goals is effective for generalizing to
real-world tools and tasks. So, next, we
compare Sim2Real against two really
common baselines.
So, our method successfully grasps and
reorients the tool into a functional
pose
to complete the task.
The fixed grasp baseline can grasp the
object, but it must rotate it using only
the arm,
resulting in a table collision.
And this, I think, really highlights the
importance of in-hand reorientation
ability as most prior approaches kind of
assumed that just acquiring and
maintaining a fixed grasp is sufficient,
but it really isn't for many cases. And
lastly, kinematic re-targeting. This is
where we try to imitate a human video
demonstration by transferring the human
fingertip motion to the robot.
But it doesn't reason about contact
forces, so it fails to even grasp the
object.
Next, we analyze the failure modes of
Sim2Real and find that pose tracking
failures dominate. Next, object grasp
the dropped after being grasped. And
lastly, failed grasp, but it really
tries to chase it down. But the policy
demonstrates really strong recovery
behaviors. So here,
when the robot drops the hammer, it
immediately regrasps it and completes
the task.
Lastly, please check out our website.
All of our code, assets, and policy
weights are open sourced, and we even
have an interactive demo that runs right
in your browser and even works on your
phone.
So it's not running on a separate
server, it's running on your phone. It
will drain your battery, so don't leave
it running for a long time, but it's
it's pretty fun.
So that's a quick overview of Sim2Real.
I want to spend the last couple of
minutes um talking about a follow-up
work called Play to Perfect. So many
real tasks, like precise assembly,
require sustained contact and
millimeter-level precision. But learning
the skills for precise assembly from
scratch is really difficult. So we argue
that before we can learn the hard
problem of precise assembly,
we must first learn the easier problem
of playing with objects in free space.
So this motivates Play to Perfect, a
framework that leverages the familiar
pre-training fine-tuning paradigm.
We first learn a shared dexterous prior
through task-agnostic play, which is
very similar to the Sim2Real
task-agnostic training.
We then fine-tune that prior on a sparse
reward contact-rich assembly task, and
deploy the policy zero-shot in the real
world. This enables diverse contact-rich
assembly behaviors, including tight
insertion,
multi-part assembly,
So in conclusion, Sim2Real enables broad
reactive dexterity across novel tools
and tasks, while Play to Perfect extends
this towards precise contact rich
assembly.
Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> Yeah, I noticed that in the demos the
recovery was I mean insanely impressive
to say the least.
Um, did y'all is that something y'all
specifically uh aimed for uh for the
robot to have good recovery or was that
just an accidental byproduct of the
policy?
>> Yeah, yeah, that's a really good
question. So, we didn't specifically
train for that, but one thing that we
really importantly added, like one of
the details about domain randomization
we added, was that in simulation we
added these random forces on the object
that randomly pushed at it. So,
sometimes it would knock it out of the
hand, so it gets experience having to
pick it back up again. If it we didn't
add that, I think it may not be as good
at recovering because it might never
drop it in
simulation.
>> How similar did y'all ensure the
primitive tools you used were similar to
like the normal brushes and like
spatulas you used?
>> Yeah, great question. So, this called
Sim-to-Real, we're trying to focus on
tool use. And many tools have some sort
of graspable region that can be somewhat
approximated with a bounding box, so
that's our kind of interface here that
we're using. So, we're not giving it
detailed like object geometry, we're
just telling it roughly like what the
bounding box size is of the graspable
region.
So, in simulation, one detail here is
that we're using all primitive objects,
just cylinders and cuboids. We could
extend it to more, then you have to
generate a whole other data set and like
remove stuff that's not stable. But the
one we key key advantage is that the
simulation runs like two to three times
faster when you use simple objects like
that, so that's what we used here. So,
things that can be reasonably
approximated as a cuboid,
so something like a spatula or um even
like a sphere would probably be fine.
But if you're trying to pick up say
something like a bowl or maybe scissors,
it probably could pick it up in some
weird way, but not in the way you'd want
it to probably.
>> So, yeah, I'm super interested in um
this kind of a novel approach rather
than learning from human demonstrations.
Basically, you learn a bunch of sub
goals and then use RL to um reach to
those sub goals.
>> Mhm.
>> But, one problem for this, I think, is
probably like how would you able to
generalize, right, to uh a lot of real
world um objects other than tools,
right? Because for tools, you can easily
define those primitives. Have you
thought about those? Like um for
example, like articulated objects,
right? How would you able to do those?
>> Simulation has its pros and cons. Like a
lot of some Like one answer would be we
can maybe just simulate all of them, you
know, simulate scissors and simulate
like all the kind of other articulated
tools. But, there are just so many
things that cannot be simulated well,
like water or like even a zipper or even
like cracking open a can of a bubbly or
something. That kind of stuff, I think,
is not currently in the realm of
simulation. So, like what we do there is
a really good question. Like can we can
we transfer these priors into the real
world and keep fine-tuning it? I think
that's most likely the way I would do
it, but that's a really good question.
Like how to integrate this kind of great
dexterous behavior, but let it keep
improving with real world experience.
>> Yeah, I think my question is more on
like even if you assume you can simulate
all the objects in the world,
but like with this paradigm, are you
able to
like generalize, right? So, just still
RL um
>> That's a really good question. I I think
if you would take a really far step
back, right? Like our policy is being
given the current pose and the goal
pose, right? And it's kind of like an
inverse dynamics model in pose space.
But, if your object can't be specified
as pose, maybe if it's something like
like a towel, maybe you can specify it
with key points. Or maybe the most
general version of it is like you have a
video goal and you're almost an inverse
dynamics model of like the current state
and like the final goal state. It's
probably possible to like train
something like that, but exactly how to
get those details right, like generating
the goal at inference time is a really
hard problem. But I think like your
question is really good one. Yeah, like
how to make that more general.
>> Yeah, we're trying to basically
reproduce this.
>> Oh, cool, cool. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Hey, I'm trying to interact with
them right now and I think like I've
been trying to poke around and find
failure modes. And I found that like the
only failure mode that like consistently
shows up is when like the arm like
continuously twists like try to find
different objectives. And like it fails
usually when it twists the arm itself
like too many times. I was wondering if
you have like a reset dynamic maybe like
between actions where like maybe let's
say like my arm is here and in order to
reach like this state like I could turn
it backwards instead of trying to twist
it even further.
>> Mhm. Yeah, yeah. Good question. Yeah, I
honestly not sure exactly what the right
solution is there. Like it should in
theory like if RL is really good, it
should know to like spin it all the way
around again. And it gets really
contorted, right? Um,
I don't know the exact solution to that.
I guess most real world applications you
don't go like crazy contorting your arm,
but I think yeah, it's good it's good
question.
>> Cool. Thank you.
>> Um, okay, first of all, this is amazing.
Congratulations. Um, my question is on
like from the team's perspective, how do
you guys iterate on such a thing? For
example, if you have one policy, you
start seeing regressions in other tasks,
how do you guys handle that? Do you have
like evals or like what does iterating
even look like in this space?
>> Good question. Yeah, this is a it's a
bunch of things, right? Like how do you
eval these kind of policies? You can
eval in the real world, but it's very
expensive and takes a lot of time. And a
lot of times like you don't actually get
statistically significant numbers,
right? You kind of almost get a vibe
check unless you run it like truly a
hundred trials. It's hard to like tell
if you're at 90% or 87% success rate.
Um,
and the other thing one thing we really
try to do is have a lot of automated
ways to evaluate our policy across all
those novel tools and tasks in
simulation. So it gives us a sense. We
train on the random objects and random
goals and see how well it works on our
real world objects and real world
trajectories, but we like I put them in
simulation.
So we get some metric, a a for if it's
doing way worse or way better.
But um it's a good question cuz honestly
it's really hard to tell. Sometimes it
actually can do occasionally it can do
better in sim but it's doing some
magical tossing and catching behavior
that, you know, may work but our post
tracker would probably fail. So, um you
kind of need a little bit of human
insight still. Yeah, it's a really
really hard one.
>> I have a quick question. Um so, you use
this uh
prehistoric thing called an LSTM.
Uh can you tell us about that? What is
that?
>> Yeah, it's a long short-term memory. So,
I can I can go into the math but
basically um this RL packages are um how
do I say it?
RL is a very finicky thing where you
almost don't want to change too much of
the code because once it works well
once, you don't want to rewrite it from
scratch because any one like value you
change could break the whole thing and
it's really good to start from a good,
you know,
starting place and then iterate from
there.
And that code base already had LSTMs
baked in. We're like, let's just try it
out and it worked better. Yeah, it's
probably other ways to integrate that in
there.
>> work better than transformers?
>> Well, there's no transformer in that
one.
>> Yeah, but but do you think that
transformers would have worked better?
>> I've talked to people about this. I
think that broadly um transformers are
probably better data sponges if you have
unlimited data. But here I feel like
we're not we're getting a lot of data
but like we're constantly updating the
policy. So, I feel like it's actually
not in that regime where we need an
enormous huge data set and some people
have actually tested this and not shown
any improvement so I haven't had the
motivation. But the yeah, the coding
agents are out now so there's probably
no excuse for me to not try it but
>> The diffusion policy paper, a lot of
people don't know this but if you go
through their their table, the conv
actually outperforms the transformer on
like half the policies.
>> Yeah, unless you tune it for transformer
better. It's actually a lot more
sensitive. So, I think yeah, exactly
that.
>> And then the last question I didn't I
didn't really understand how you create
random goals. What does that mean? Like
actually in the code. Like what are you
actually doing?
>> it's it's like the simplest thing you
can imagine. Like we sample a position,
we sample a rotation
and then we can put that as their first
goal and then every subsequent goal is
some delta pose of like up to 10 cm away
and up to 90 degrees difference. Yeah.
>> I see. So, that's really good for
training the policy to get from A to B,
but it's not good for generating the
goal. So, to generate to generate the
goal, you need human labels.
>> Exactly. Or, you could do something
else. So, you could actually imagine
that some high-level planner like
looking at the scene, understanding the
full context, and then generating the
goals for you. I think that's probably a
pretty interesting direction. Yeah.
>> Uh you were mentioning some of the
failures were due to wrong estimation of
the pose.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah.
>> What fraction of those would be
attributable to that? And second
question is,
uh are you always using the third-person
views, or did you also perform any
experiments with first-person views?
>> Good question. Yeah.
Um about more than half of our failures,
I think roughly 60% of our failures were
purely from the pose tracking. It was
really like one of the big bottlenecks
of the system. It's honestly not my
favorite part.
Um but it really happened the most on
these smaller objects. So, look, that
that marker, that one is really easy to
be occluded, right? You barely see it at
some points. So, I think that's like
example of one that'd be really hard.
So, like this kind of longer leg, or
this like bigger brush has a lot more
features, so those would be having
having less pose tracking issues. So,
that's like roughly how that looks.
>> Were you using like the third-person
view, or did you also experiment with
first-person
>> the third-person view roughly like where
this camera is, and then that's pretty
much all we tried. Yeah, we just kind of
found a good angle where it didn't seem
to occluded, and then we just used the
pose tracking from there. I think it
could be better. Maybe you could even
use like a pose tracker from the camera.
You probably can distill this to some
image-based policy, but there's some
details about getting the goal
conditioning right.
>> Awesome. Thanks, Dylan.
>> Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> Yeah, Nico. I'm the one of the
co-founders and the the CEO of Rerun. In
a prior life, as a Rerun yeah, started
out about 4 years ago. In prior life, I
used to do machine learning, computer
vision for physical world applications
for yeah, for shipping products like
that for for about a decade before this
company. At Rerun, we are building this
sort of unified data layer for physical
AI. Basically, tools and infra to help
you work with physical data from
collection all the way to training. So,
this open source SDK is pretty popular
and a bunch of people in here use it for
basically working with physical data.
So, it's like logging, visualizing,
sort of generic querying, and sort of
data loading and and stuff like that for
training. So, basically all the kind of
tools that you need to to transform and
and sort of analyze data. And we have a
infra product which is called WeRun Hub,
which is basically a data catalog and
sort of large-scale data backend for
doing all those same things, uh but for
lots of data on sort of in the cloud. As
part of building this,
we get to talk to or work with like
amazing companies doing robotics from
like Frontier Labs all the way to, you
know, two-person YC startups.
And
there is a sort of There are many ways
of doing robotics companies and robotics
projects. I would say there's one
pattern
that we're seeing a lot of that really
really working right now that I'm I'm
super excited about and I want to see
way more of. So, this talk is actually
mainly me trying to tell tell you all to
start companies like this. So, basically
that new category is what might be
called robotics application companies. I
think some some people call these like
the new integrators.
And their pattern is kind of really like
taking ownership of a full business
problem sort of end-to-end. Right now,
this is working See this working a lot
in like data center management and
construction, like
warehouses, manufacturing, things like
that.
Just making being a really really
excellent at operations, like deploying,
support, things like this kind of thing.
Building as absolutely little custom
hardware as possible.
And then just generally often starting
with teleop, like making sure the
business works with pure teleop, and
like fine-tuning models, so not feeling
the need to to start out with foundation
models and solve like very very general
problems. I My personal belief is that
this kind of category of companies going
to be the new SaaS, right? The way
SaaS companies kind kind came and just
like took over our software over the
last I don't know, 10 years until I
guess SAS is dead now, but this is not
dead.
Um
this is the same thing is going to
happen for their work in physical world
and like these kinds of companies are
going to do a lot of the sort of
transformation of the the world's
economy. Uh so
so I think it's very ripe time to get
into it. So kind of to talk about that,
I thought I'd just sort of walk through
a little bit. Like if I wasn't doing
rerun, how would I do it, right? And
this is kind of the pattern that I see.
Just how do you get started, right?
So pretty simple pattern. Uh
start with a single customer problem
that someone will pay you for. Solve it
with teleoperation first and just
off-the-shelf hardware. Just scrappy um
kind of get started. The basics you need
for for learning and then uh with that
in place, you just yeah, iterate uh more
and more and and sort of scale. And that
that will be the rest of your time of
your company, but that's that's sort of
the fun part. And for me, um I would
clearly pick this a very important
problem. Everybody loves paper planes.
And like folding is annoying, so I
would, you know, make a robot for
automating paper plane factories. First
thing you do, right? As I I said, sell
and deploy like super fast.
Uh ideally with, you know, teleop and
off-the-shelf hardware, as I said, and
like the reason for this basically like
the physical world is brutal, right? Uh
everything that you do is going to
break. Um all the thing like you will
not have thought of all the different
failure modes up front. It is not
possible to think of them all in the
lab. Um
and so you it's really really important
that you understand kind of the
end-to-end like real business
requirements super fast because you
can't fix all the theoretical things.
Sort of benefit if you can solve
something with teleop, generally you can
train a model to do it, right? The
converse is not always the case as as we
we heard about in a lot of uh but
but yeah, if you can, that's great. So
just some examples of what we might
learn doing this, right? So maybe uh we
learn that
uh you need to produce a thousand
perfect planes per day to be viable as a
business, right? Um maybe it's okay to
to fail as long as we can sort out uh
bad planes. Uh so we need to be a
efficient like discriminator. Paper is
cheap, right?
Um customers care most, turns out, about
the speed to onboard like new plane
designs.
Um if you add the right little paper
tray, maybe you reduce failures by 50%
because most of the failures were
actually picking up picking up the paper
from a a pile.
Um it maybe it turns out takes you a
human 20 hours of practice to get good
enough to meet like a customer's
uh demand. Uh sort of requirements. And
that has huge impacts on like how you're
going to run operations. You maybe you
need to now hire all the teleoperators
cuz they need training, for instance.
You may also learn that it's like 10
more times uh valuable if your robot can
also go pick up the paper and pack the
boxes uh for shipping at the end, right?
So then you have sort of a idea of your
V2 product.
And you'll definitely learn that your
arms are going to break.
Uh you know, those cheap sort of
research arms that you bought, they're
going to break and you need to sort of
um after after some use and you need to
change your supplier. And so so that's
that's sort of uh part one. Um part two
yeah, then setting up the basics for for
learning. So, hello world in the space
is basically fine-tuning a um
let's say fine model, open model of some
kind, uh just for simplest possible
case.
On a few hours of demonstration, like
teleop demonstration,
and just making sure that it somehow
works a little bit, right? So you're
you're kind of up on the treadmill.
Um like it's really important to do this
early as well because like
training on the data early will change
how you collect, how you run operations,
so so that's uh that's super key.
Um when you have that in place, you need
to um
you need to be able to make sure that
you can evaluate and sort of understand
performance.
And then obviously like collect the data
that you can train well on. So, number
one, um
yep, evaluating performance. First thing
you need to do is to have a replica of
the customer's environment uh in your
own office. I've been in a lot of
robotics companies' offices.
Among the company who has who actually
ship working products, I haven't seen a
single office that doesn't have a
replica of the customer environments.
Um you just need somewhere to test and
you need to test a lot. Number two is
like finding a repeatable way to
evaluate success.
And this is where you're going to do
this is the backbone of all the learning
that you're going to do.
And here you can really encode
things that the sort of generic model
companies will not do. Like you're going
to encode what is important to this
business, right? And that you learn on
the ground with your customers. There's
a lot of stickiness in that. In this
case, um
you know, maybe we care a lot about that
the edges on the planes are sharp,
right? We care about that it matches the
design, it's symmetric, maybe the weight
distribution is right, I don't know,
right?
Super important to do this yourself
manually.
Like until you really understand it and
it's kind of a stabilizing. Definitely
automate it that somehow, train a model,
outsource it, um but do it manually at
first. And then you need to be tracking,
you know, metadata
uh of all the rollouts, failure
classifications, that kind of thing.
Yeah, second thing is yeah, collecting
data that is effective to train on. And
uh it's sort of tautological almost, but
like if like good data is data that
makes the model better.
Um but what that means in practice for
you is that uh you need to be training
and evaluating and kind of debugging uh
your data constantly.
Like if I talk to
uh researchers at like big
uh robotics companies with huge budgets
and and so on, they'll often tell me
that like one of the most common things
that they'll do when they're analyzing
their they're debugging their policy or
analyzing their data is they actually
find out that the right thing to do is
to send a different instruction to their
data collectors.
To collect data differently or like to
stop doing some mistake.
So yes, doing this early, you don't want
to be like collecting all your data up
front
and then train later. Like a huge
mistake.
Um there's there's big lots of
literature and exper- expertise on like
what what kind of data you want. You
want the right kind of variability, no
bugs. Uh that's a deep one. But the most
important thing isn't like the specific
ways of doing it. It's that you are
testing and iterating really fast. Uh
and so you're getting your hands on real
problems.
Um to do all this, yeah, you you need
the right sort of
data and and and formats, kind of tools
to to work with your data through
through all this. You need to be able to
record and store and kind of inspect
your data and obviously train on it,
right? Uh so, just a couple sort of
smaller examples.
One could just be this like your
customer said that they care a lot about
uh quickly onboarding new designs.
So, that means you have to have some
strategy to be a little bit more sample
efficient. So, very commonly, this like
more practical about these companies,
what they'll do then is they'll That
means, okay, we're we're splitting the
this task into more like composable
subtasks. So, then you need to design
that taxonomy, um figure out how you
want to annotate this efficiently and
repeatably, and uh you're now in a
situation where your annotation is too
complex to be doing live. Maybe in a
simpler case, you could actually have
the operator just speak or, you know,
have a little um foot pedal or something
like that to do annotation, but now you
can't do that. So, that changes your
operations. Yeah, second one of the kind
of data tooling, uh you kind of get into
like, why not just use Postgres or, you
know, whatever data infra was built
prior generation to do LLMs or, you
know,
feature stores for prior ML and so on.
Uh there are the answers. Basically, the
physical data is all the data that, you
know, you're you're going to be working
with in robotics, it's just very very
different than web data. It's
multimodal. It's multi-rate. Uh it's
episodic. It has this like weird
semantics of 3D and sort of deep nested
structures. And
that means that if you try and put that
kind of data in like normal like normal
data systems like table table-based
databases, it's incredibly hard to query
and it's very inefficient to store and
process and so on. And this this like
base thing is really at the heart of a
really lot of the complexity of like
working with physical data.
Um yeah, there's a a really lot lot to
say of that, but the end the end effect
is that most teams if you don't like set
the right storage sort of layer at the
bottom and the building a good real lot
of workarounds and that's a huge amount
of friction. But you have these like
very very basic things uh in place, uh
you're ready to hill climb, right? So
you're you're deploying and learning
from like real valuable
uh like robotic service that that's
giving like doing something
worthwhile. Uh you know how to evaluate
performance so you can improve.
You know how to collect data and and
kind of train on it well and you can
debug across the stack, right? The super
important, you don't know where the
problems are in robotics, like real
robotics
uh is kind of a death by a thousand cuts
kind of industry. So you I just have to
find all the problems. And then after
that it's just iterate and scale. This
is what you're doing the whole company,
super super fun. Includes, you know,
improving intelligence so you know,
scaling up crazy amounts of data perhaps
if you need it, like iterating on
algorithms and and sort of more advanced
use of data, maybe adding in Francois'
favorite with tactile or or whatnot or
depth or sound. Um but you're also like
really going to have to get excellent at
sales and as like assembly of your
robot, shipping it like really fast,
having a what's your unboxing
experience, like operation support. Um
and
kind of everything everything in
between.
And
like importantly, these other areas that
are not just modeling is like a lot of
the source of your moat. This is the
kind of stuff that the model pure model
companies will not do, right? Yeah, just
on that like you just kind of the thing
that we see even the absolute the teams
that we've seen like really really
succeed. And there are some companies
taking this approach that re- reasonably
little small amounts of capital that are
making already making a lot of money
doing very very well
and growing super fast.
Uh it's just like yeah, basically
iterating super fast.
So on the frontier lab side that tends
to mean that they're like investing huge
amounts of compute for every researcher.
Everybody knows they they spend a lot on
GPUs of course for model experiments,
but also uh like a quite big
um spend on CPU for like just really
turning down latency on like searching
and exploring data.
Uh but these like robotics applications
startups instead they really focus on
um
sort of very very pragmatic and simple
like flexible systems
uh to to have like very minimizing
moving parts.
Super important to have like fast
turnaround on new data. Um full stack
debugging.
Uh yeah, and just like making sure that
you can understand all moving parts. Um
yeah, so this is my pitch to all of you.
Uh you should at least someone in here
should go start a robotics application
company.
Uh the market or markets are enormous.
Uh the base models will keep getting
better. There is actually enough
friction in the physical world to build
real business models. So means you can
you know stick around which is great.
And you can do this with a relatively
small amount of capital. You will not
need to raise a billion dollar seed.
And but you still need like great AI.
You need great engineering to win. So
that means that like all of you here and
like you guys people listening uh you
have a leg up and it will still be super
fun. I'm still going to do a quick plug
or like reiterate what we run does. So
if you're building a company like this
um definitely check out rerun or you
know talk to me. As I said we have a
open source SDK. It's basically meant
for you to iterate super fast with
robotics data.
Um has all the pieces you need. It works
really well with agents if you want to
um you know make it work exactly like
you like it.
And uh sort of a production catalog and
sort of storage engine to make it fast
and easy to use when at some point you
need to start scaling and have a lot of
this data for production or for training
or whatever it is.
All right. Uh that's me. And you can you
know find us here.
>> [applause]
>> So, I think where we see a lot of early
success is it tends to be in
uh things
things that you can tell off basically.
So, it will be um you know data centers
are a quite significant category. Uh but
a lot of warehouse robotics. There's so
many pieces that go into just moving
things around in the world.
And a lot of them are quite repeatable.
And labor
is fairly cheap. Uh but it's also hard
to manage, right? And it's there's too
little labor out there. Uh we found with
the companies that we work with and are
generally know that can build like a
reliable robot, they basically are 100%
supply constrained. They
they have a very very easy time like
filling their demand. So, that'd be one
area. Small-scale manufacture like table
top manufacturing of different kinds. Uh
we see a lot of action there.
Uh food as well.
>> Inego, thank you. Um why haven't there
been a bunch of these robot application
companies yet that have been, you know,
at billions of revenue?
>> Uh I think it's you know
robotics is this like a death by a
thousand cuts kind of thing.
And I think in any area like this,
it matters that you can kind of get
try out an application fairly cheaply.
And that's actually quite new, right?
It's
it's there are a lot more arms on the
market now, right? The base models are
way better now than 2 years ago. Um
and so you just it's there's been this
lack of the basics that you need to kind
of do this fairly cheaply. So,
everybody's had to go out and raise like
huge rounds and go for a much more
general things to start with.
>> I think like one dilemma one might face
while building this kind of company is
how to estimate the scale of data you
would need to solve a particular problem
before
the model is deployable.
So, like how do you go about that? Like
how do you estimate the scale of data
you would need? And whether it's the
right problem to solve or switch the
problem so that we need uh less data to
just iterate faster.
>> Yeah, I think that's really one of the
core ideas between if you can tell up
first.
You it's not obvious that all many
businesses work without full autonomy.
Um even you know, a lot of the robot
taxi businesses don't need full
autonomy, right? It's so a lot of these
companies they take they see autonomy as
a scaling factor.
And so, you tell up generally if you can
tell up, you will be able to learn at
least important parts at some point.
And it just becomes a question you learn
that by training models and kind of
trying to, you know, plot their own
scaling curves and and so on. I don't
know that I know anything up front.
Uh but that's kind of the idea of the
strategy. You don't guess in a void uh
because it's equally likely that some
task the task that you thought you
needed to solve isn't really the
important task anyway, right?
>> Thanks.
>> All right. Thank you, Nico.
>> [applause]
>> Uh we're from General Instinct. Uh my
name is Bill and then Guanmin's going to
present later. I come from
uh kind of a technical background
working on VLMs at the beginning. Worked
at Siemens on their foundation model to
train to predict time series. And then
Guanmin worked mostly on robotics RL.
What our company does is we build
infrastructure for you to run physical
air models really fast. So, you have for
LLMs you have VLMs and actually laying.
For physical air models like world
actual models and VLAs you would have us
General Instinct. Yeah, this is a meme
from Jim Fan's talk that VLA VLAs are
dead and then we're going to have world
action models from now on. So, most of
us in the room know what VLAs are
already. I'm not going to try to explain
it. Basically, you have a VLM that's
trying to predict an action through an
action head. What a world action model
is, however, is uh
you have a central diffusion transformer
that's trying to predict what the future
looks like and future kinematics at the
same time. So, you have current
observation from a robot's camera in the
form of video streams and then you're
trying to imagine future frames as a
condition to try to predict future
kinematics. One example is Nvidia's
Dream Zero. You have uh basically
the robot trying to predict future
actions and then you have the flow
matching that allows the robot to
act on those action chunks in future
frames. And Dream Zero did really well.
So, these are some benchmarks that you
have on Dream Zero compared to some of
the state-of-the-art models. Some models
in Pi, some models also from Nvidia.
But, one problem that we noticed is that
although
world action models perform really well,
because you're you're still trying to
use a diffusion model to try to predict
frames, it's really heavy. So, even
after all of these optimizations that
you can do on it, it still takes two GB
200s to run the same model. And then
each one costs around 70K. So,
economically for robotics as an
industry, this is not scalable. Yeah,
another meme. VLAs are not dead cuz
they're small.
>> So, since we know
uh world action model like Dream Zero is
super slow and we will talk about how
can we optimize it. So, this is the
architecture. On the left is a training
pipeline and then on the right is the
inference pipeline. So, for the training
pipeline, you basically uh you treat
current observation as a condition for
the flow matching and you add noises to
the future latents. And then you would
train the model to learn the future
latents and then predict the future
velocity field. And then send it to the
ODE, then you can drift back to the
future latents with clean states. Does
the same thing for the inference as
well. For the inference you're doing
this auto regressively for maybe 50
steps or some some of the field that you
want 100 steps to ensure the accuracy of
the models.
And
a problem for this will be
uh on the left you have the video
prediction. On the right you have the
IDM, which is the inverse dynamics
model. So basically for each chunk
production
to produce one chunk for 16 frames you
need to run the DIT, which is a
diffusion transformer for 32 times
because of the CFG. Uh the CFG is you
need to run the condition for the flow
matching and also run another
unconditional flow matching. Then you
can take the derivative of the gradient
that you can you can do for the gradient
descent for the flow matching. If we go
back to the architecture like this,
people will talk about oh why not we
just do not run the diffusion models? So
we don't need to predict the future
frames.
That works. And there's a research paper
called Image Ram. Basically they're not
predicting the future video chunks,
instead they're predicting the future
end state which is the
uh future end state of the
uh single frame.
For instance, I'm predicting the future
video for maybe 16 frames. Rather than
predicting the whole video, we can just
predict a T plus N, which is the end
state of the frame. And there's another
research paper called Fast One. Fast One
is more extreme in some sense. Uh they
think all the word representation they
are already learned in the hidden state
of the DIT.
So you don't even need a decoder to
decode our videos. You can just use the
hidden state as a condition to train
your action head.
By doing this, you don't even need a
decoder in the training and also in the
inference pipeline.
If we If we take a analogy of those two
different word action models,
for the generative word action model,
which is you need to decode and then
pre- predict the future frames, so
pretty much like a VR
of Google Maps.
But for the latent word action model,
it's like you look at the navigation of
your Google Maps and then think about
what the model the car says it has to do
and then what kind of action you're
going to produce in the future. In
conclusion, all the problem began All
the problem comes down to the question
about how to keep the rich word
representation. Some of the people like
uh LeCun, they think about uh cuz they
were doing Jepa,
they think about maybe we can have two
different encoders. And then one encoder
is encoding the current observation and
then the other one is encoding the a
future observation.
And by learning by doing loss on the
current observation latent and the
future
uh future observation latent, then you
can teach model to learn how to predict
the future.
And that's one way of doing this and
they're doing this use MSE loss.
And the other people, they're using they
treat the future as a distribution of of
possibilities. It might be you take this
possibility of this action, you might
take uh as a other possibility of taking
another action. So, you treat them as a
distribution and then you uh estimate
those kind of action distribution and
you think full magic. We talked about
those different optimization angles we
might have. And
for us, since we're doing the infra
thing, so we did all those optimization
on our infra. Uh we did distillation on
the VAE part, which is a VAE
encoder-decoder. We also did
distillation on the DiT part, so the DiT
became smaller.
We also divided the
Okay, cuz previously they were using the
same transformer same it's the same DIT.
We divide them to two different DITs.
Rather than decode all the future
frames, we can just use the cross
attention from the
video transformer to the action
transformers. So, the action transformer
learns
the hidden state, which which is a word
representation from the video
transformer, and you don't have to
decode the future frames anymore.
We also did this solution on the uh
auto aggressive flow matching sampling.
Uh previously, it might take 50 steps or
like 100 steps to do the flow matching
decoding, but we made it to down to one
or two steps, which is immediately 50
times of speed up. And we also did some
changes on the modality side cuz we know
future representation or word
representation,
uh you can learn through pixel level, or
you can learn through through latent
level. Is it possible we can find a more
suitable modality to represent or to
retain the word representation?
So, one way of doing this it might be
mask.
And then the other way might be flow.
We tested the both of them, and you can
see the heat map
is the visualization of the model.
And it guides the word model about which
action you're going to take in the
future 0.5 seconds.
By using our infra, the word action
model can runs
500
I should be a 500 milliseconds per
chunk, which is 16 actions on Jetson
store.
And we also wrote a full blog about how
we did this on our website. Uh this is
the QR code if you wanted to learn more
about it. And also this is the LinkedIn
of the founders of us. That's it.
Thanks, guys.
>> [applause]
>> Uh going back to that slide that you had
with the training and inference of the
world action models,
in the training stage,
they're using flow matching and teacher
forcing.
Um
that makes sense, but in inference
you're going to start from a fully noisy
space and then you're going to come to
the future time step. How do you ensure
that at inference time the model
actually
collapses to the right thing and it just
doesn't degrade to noise?
>> Uh that's a very good question. So, for
the training part, you begin with the
clean future latents, and then you add a
noise to the clean future latents
gradually.
So, eventually the future clean latents
will become pure noise
at the end for the training part. So, by
doing this, the inference learns how to
reverse it back.
So, when you're given to a pure noise,
the inference learns how to do this
gradually and then reverse back to the
future clean latents.
So, that's basically how it works.
>> So, like curriculum learning or starting
with like very little noise initially
and as you train for longer longer you
have more noise.
>> And that's why it's super slow cuz
people doing this maybe for 50 steps.
So, we think it's too slow. So, we just
found a way to distill it to like two
steps or like three steps, so it'll be
way quicker and without performance
drop.
>> Yeah, that's super interesting to me
all. So, when it comes to the world
models, uh is the performance
improvement due to the action heads
looking at more details when we are
forcing them to predict the whole frame?
And second one is when there are
multiple agents that are involved in the
scene, uh does the model actually
develop some kind of a theory of mind
and predict other agents' actions in
order to be able to predict the world?
>> Uh that's a very good question. So, I
want to go back to the architecture of
VLA and world action models.
So, uh I got a lot of question about
what is difference between VLA and the
wood action model. Why does wood model
need to predict the future rather than
just predict action itself?
Um
a way of how to answer this is for VLA
especially, they are just based on the
current observation to predict the
current action. So, they don't have the
explicit learning of the future
kinematics.
The only reason we need to introduce
videos, especially for future videos,
for wood action model is we want to
teach the model to learn the future
kinematics.
For example, I'm holding a
a bottle of water, and then I drop the
bottle of water.
So, from pixel level, if we give the
future videos to the model, the model
learns
how the kinematics will change the pixel
level, and then we know this is kind of
a supervision of teaching the model to
learn the future dynamics. And we
believe the future dynamics help with
the action generation as well, because
it's physics.
So, by doing this, we teach the model
how to learn the correlation between the
physics from from the pixel level to the
action you produced.
>> To test that hypothesis,
um
could you train a
transformer stack body to do next frame
prediction, and then
more and more, and then rip off the head
and just do the action. What would it do
the same thing?
>> I think like we divide them to two
different transformers.
>> Two different stages.
>> Yeah.
Um
of course, there's a more efficient way
to do this, and it's called mixture of
transformers.
And if you check the image one, they
actually do this thing.
They did the cross attention from the
image editing backbone to the action
expert, because
uh just like uh image round model also
fast one, they realize the word
representation, you don't have to
explicitly decode the frames. You can
just keep them in the hidden state, and
then do a cross attention from
the last layer of the backbone to the
action head. So, short answer for this
is of course you can do so. And then we
realize that this is a more efficient
way to
of to maintain the word representation
meanwhile produce the best action based
on the word representation.
>> And then is there Is there no test time
planning that's done with WAM where you
will invoke, let's say,
10 samples and I'll get 10 different end
states and 10 different actions.
Um and then I'll pick the best end state
of the ones that were sampled and then
emit that action. Is that not done?
>> Yeah, I think it's pretty much how flow
matching works, right? Cuz for flow
matching you're basically train you are
treat action as a possibility of
distributions and then you always sample
the
a best trajectory. And we used the
teacher forcing to teach the model to
a sample the distribution of the
actions. So, I think for flow matching
they are already doing the same thing.
>> And then last question for me, like why
choose the business model of being a
a VLLM equivalent for
WAMs versus just actually, you know, do
like Nico says, become a robotics
application company and actually go
end-to-end.
>> Uh I think Bill can answer this
question.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, I think the reason we went with
this route is because we really believe
in having this understanding of the
world for your models, but I think right
now everyone's focused on maintaining
the research so that it can be as
generalizable as possible. But
eventually every model like that needs
to go on the edge and needs to go in
real time. So, I think right now not a
lot of people are focused on building
the infrastructure that allows those
models to perform really well on your
robots first. We want to be the first
company to do that.
>> Hi. Uh I have two questions. Um the
first one is more of a clarifying
question of like um, so for a wham, like
do you do is the prediction auto
aggressive in like previous frames or is
it like one previous like t minus one
and then to t without any other like t
minus two minus three and so on?
>> I think what you were talking about is
the chunk size cuz you can change the
parameters as well. So for the training
you can do 16 frames which people they
all do 16 frames which is you predicting
a future 16 frames and people they also
do uh, 32 or like even higher frames.
But if you increase the chunk size which
is more frames you produce then it will
be harder for the model to learn the
future states cuz it's longer.
>> Okay, okay. Uh, and my second question
is are you
uh, familiar with any work that uses
like
um, encodings for
the differences between frames? So like
temporal difference encoding I think
like a recent work by Yann LeCun.
Um, as well as like uh, tech blog by I
think induction labs where they like
train a image image imagination model
um, that predicts like latent encodings
for um, the differences between uh,
adjacent frames in a video.
>> Yes. And
uh, if you check here we mentioned about
asymmetrical denoising cuz we found a
way that you can actually measure the
energy of the key frame cache. So rather
than you can produce all the future
frames why not just produce those
maintain the highest uh, details of the
the action you are doing right now.
And
uh, that's basically what we added to
the new frame as well. So if you we
found a way to measure the key frame
cache to measure the different energy of
the key frame cache and then based on
the energy then we decide if the model
going to predict different resolution of
the frames or just
purely doing this on the latent space.
>> Thank you.
>> [applause]