Title: Lessons From Training Composer At Cursor And Building Meta/Nvidia Compute Clusters | YC Paper Club
Video ID: n8dz2FX0_uY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8dz2FX0_uY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-29T23:46:52Z
Duration: PT1H16M24S
Views: 43261
Likes: 1251
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 2093

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
Welcome to uh YC Mountain View special
edition of YC Paper Club. I'm thinking
about some of the feedback was like kind
of making it theme related. So today
it's the YC kernel and chip club. So the
trend that I see in lab with Stu and
John that we talk about all the time is
this like specialization that's
happening. Uh we saw it with um TPU8 the
I and the T version zebra fish and
sunfish. Is that what it's called? It's
like to make an ASIC you need such
activation energy. Um and now and there
wasn't enough demand for there to be
such a split. But we just see that at
the chip level there's going to be
massive specialization. The specs that
you would need for a training data
center are going to be very different
than the specs for a uh inference data
center. You don't need any bandwidth in
and out for a training data center. You
can literally send a spaceship to the
sun, come back with a weight file and
like it's it's the same, right? You
can't do that with inference. And
there's so many things like that that
we'll talk about. And there's so much
juice left to squeeze on the CUDA side,
on the kernel side. And so I'm really
excited to have um some folks talk about
that. And there's juice to squeeze on
the algorithm side. And so like you know
do we need to go to the big heavy model
every single time for every single query
if I'm asking it one plus one why do I
have to do n flops every single time. So
it doesn't there's so much juice to
squeeze still on the algorithm side on
the uh um on let's call it software side
and on the chip side and on the data
center side. And so first we'll have um
Stuart Soul out of uh my lab at at
Stanford one of my lab mates. Uh he is
which is the strip mall research lab now
um used to be called hazy formerly
called hazy uh research scientist at
curser um and trains composer and then
we have John uh CSPHD labm mate with me
as well also co-advised by Aelia focused
on LMS MLIS and hardware and really
focuses uh really I would say pioneers
this idea of intelligence efficiency
intelligence per watt intelligence per
jewel um he'll be talking about
And then uh we have Mark coming up next,
a former PyTorch maintainer uh
co-founded uh GPU mode with my friend
Casey Elward. Um and then is co-founding
uh core automation with uh OpenAI VP
research Jerry Torque. And then Misha uh
hardware software codees been working on
that for two decades and ran AI infra at
NVIDIA uh and then also worked on
hardware software codeesign at Meta and
then is also founding a very exciting
new company as well. Maybe we'll hear
about some of it. And then finally, uh,
Brennan, who, uh, I also met at
Stanford, is not in my lab, but I really
having done a lot of RL working on
self-driving car, um, and things like
that, the it's amazing how much of
simulators when you call um,
environment.step is still run on the
CPU. And so that's usually the
bottleneck for a lot of your on policy
rollouts, which makes let's call it RL
is now taken over by RHF terminology,
but classic RL very, very difficult. and
so using GPUs to do weird
[laughter]
as he says. Um, so he's one of the best
people at doing weird with GPUs.
I'll just give like two slides on my
high level. I don't want, you know, I'm
not the person that knows about this
stuff the best at all, but from my
vantage point, we're going to see this
proliferation and where we have
sufficient demand now because there's so
much demand for tokens where it makes
sense to specialize at the chip level
that will pay out and and allow you to
go through the full new product
introduction on the on the ASIC for
specialization. And I think the Zebraish
Sunfish TPU uh V8 is the first that
we're seeing of this, but I think it's
going to get much much more split out.
We already do see it a little bit on
where a lot of the stack pe for
inference people will go to um uh Nvidia
for prefill and then they'll go to
Cerebras for for decode engine. And so
that's already kind of splitting out.
But there's another one that people
really don't um talk about where uh it's
batch size one inference. And I think
that like when latency really really
really matters for for example voice
agents when you get on the phone call
and it says hi how you doing and it
waits 8 seconds because it has to like
go through this whole process and it's
like oh my god well they're prioritizing
throughput and it's like well that's not
good that's not going to work and if
they were prioritizing you batch size
one they'd run out of GPUs and it'd be
so expensive and so that's a chip issue
and so we can we can solve those types
of things and then on the data center
side equal amounts of specialization
especially actually if you're going to
use different chips for each data
center. So the primary metric that you
care about if you're training models is
you know basically time per step and um
you and you want to train up bigger and
bigger models. Um the location you kind
of just don't really care where it is.
It doesn't really need to be close to to
to users. You can put it literally at
the sun like you know orbiting the sun
and just training training training. the
types of GPUs the the interconnects
you're going to have have to have a uh
all to all communication um you have to
pass around a lot of gradient um and for
uh inference the the you have to have
all the to all just for thee but other
than that you don't um and so you can
shard uh much more nicely um yeah
there's a whole bunch of other things to
consider that that justify splitting it
out and then our speaker is going to go
much more into detail on that the next
one on 729. We'll do a robotics focused
one. There's a bunch of YC companies
that are actually might actually bring
some robots too. So we have uh which
ironically this is like how YC actually
got founded. Uh the original story in
across the street is that Trevor
Blackwell was starting a company called
Anybots which is the robots right over
there. Um, and he had some extra space
and PG asked him if I can, you know, uh,
uh, take over some of the space at on
Tuesday nights to run this thing called
Y Cominator and that and then went
across the street and then, uh, YC took
over all of the Antibbots stuff. And so,
it's pretty pretty cool to make bring
that full circle. And then for the next
one after that, um, I'd love your guys
uh, feedback and like what we should do.
Maybe this is an idea. Um, working on
RLVR and some of the the latest
everyone's talking about these
distillation attacks and things like
that. Um, it's actually not clear to me
what the distillation strategies that
people are really uh trying that are
successful um out there. You know, we
were talking about a lot in lab today.
It's like it's not clear what the
optimal strategy if you had a weight
file, how to distill from it um or if
you just had an API like how would you
actually do it? And so this is kind of
like the way that I I was explaining to
you know the lab about what I think is
kind of happening right now. But like
clawed kind of mother birds into Kimmy 2
and then now Kimmy 2 is post-training
thinking machines and so it just keeps
going and going. Now I'll hand it over
to Stu. Everyone welcome to Stu.
[applause]
Right. Hello everyone. My name is
Stuart. Uh I'm a CS PhD student at
Stanford. I'm also a researcher at
cursor where I train composer. And today
I'm here to talk about parallel kittens
which is our work on making multiGPU AI
kernels simple and fast. Um one quick
note before I begin. Um the final
deliverable of this paper is a CUDA
framework that we refer to as parallel
kittens. But the goal of today's talk is
not to promote my open source library
but rather to convey the set of lessons
that I learned while I was doing this
work which is a mental framework for
thinking about multi-GPU kernels and GPU
networking in general. So I hope you
walk away with the same set of insights
that I was able to gain. So let's try to
motivate this a little bit. Um over the
past few years the ML systems community
has devoted a lot of effort into single
GPU efficiency. Um for instance we have
IO aware algorithms like flash attention
linear attention models mega kernels and
many many programming libraries and
frameworks for um writing efficient
kernels across many architectures and
these works mainly helped us squeeze the
most out of the single GPU and thanks to
all of these efforts um what we now
believe is that GPU networking is the
major uh bottleneck that's remaining and
that there's a lot of exciting
opportunities left in that area. Um for
example, networking can still consume up
to 50% of total runtime for workloads
like llamas MDB prefill. Obviously this
number can vary wildly uh depending on
the workload. But the point I'm trying
to make is that networking weights GPU
utilization. So the standard practice
nowadays is to overlap um interGPU
communication with intra GPU operations
like memory access and compute. And the
granularity of this scheme has gotten
much smaller nowadays. Um it used to be
we used to transfer overlap the transfer
of entire tensors or matrices. Nowadays
we do it at tile or even token
granularity meaning it's a few kilobytes
or even less than 1 kilobyte of data. On
the other hand hardware advancements
have been quite exciting for the
networking. For instance we have this
thing called in network compute. Um so
in the past if you want to implement a
collective operations like all reduce
you needed to implement this algorithm
where you have the GPUs um doing some
arithmetic on local data send the
results to pure GPUs repeat that n
number of times and then you end up with
the results. But within network compute
what you can do is you can offload all
of those arithmetic communication to the
networking fabric and the GPUs are free
to do whatever useful computation that
it needs to do. uh you also have a
asynchronous bulk device initiated
networking which was not possible a few
generations ago and you also have uh
scale up architectures like NVL72 which
packs 72 GPUs inside a single NVLink
domain and soon this is going to extend
to hundreds of GPUs. So the problem we
are interested in solving under all of
these settings is it remains very
difficult to write multi-GPU kernels
that one does fine grain overlap of
compute and communication two exploit
all of these exciting recent hardware
characteristics and three stay simple
and easy to maintain for both humans and
AI agents and I emphasize that it's the
conjunction of these three
characteristics that makes this problem
especially difficult. ult because you
currently roughly have uh three
alternatives. Um one is to use
off-the-shelf libraries like nickel uh
which only expose coarse grain
communication primitives and leave a lot
of bubbles in the hardware execution.
Two is to use compiler based approaches.
But we find these compliers compilers to
be quite suboptimal. They produce
kernels that are sometimes slower than
non-overlap baselines or to use
low-level primitives like OS
interprocess communication calls or uh
px assembly. and they often require
reverse engineered understanding of the
networking hardware and in general they
make code really complex and hard to
maintain. So the main question we are
asking here is is there a small set of
principles slashtradeoffs that clarifies
the multi-GPU AI kernel design space and
can we use that understanding to build a
minimal set of programming abstractions
or primitives that really simplify um
writing efficient multi-GPU kernels for
production.
PK or parallel kittens is the answer to
this question. So before we get to PK um
let's quickly cover the GPU fundamentals
uh for those who are not familiar.
Okay so here's a very simplified view of
a GPU and inside a GPU you find this
thing called SM or streaming
multiprocessor. SM is very similar to
our core on a CPU in that it performs
arithmetic logical operations and
sometimes matrix multiplications and
they're the juice of the GPUs. they have
all the flops, all the compute you want
and naturally so you have um a lot of
them. Um on black hole GPUs you have 148
SM on Hopper you have 132 SMS and in
order for these SMS to perform
computation you need data. So naturally
you have the memory system you have the
crossbar you have the L2 cache and you
have the HBM which serves as the main
memory for GPUs uh modern GPUs and you
need something to initiate operations on
the GPU. So you connect the CPU and GPU
through the PCIe and on data center
servers you usually want multiple GPUs.
So you have many GPUs and in the past if
you want these GPUs to communicate with
each other um you had to make the data
go through the PCIe but PCIe is is a
shared resource um it gets congested
it's relatively slow. So we have Envy
link which allows direct communication
of data between the GPUs. And that's
basically essentially um what Nvidia DGX
machines are all about. Um DGX has been
around for quite a while. It's widely
used in production AI training and
inference. It's a collection of a GPUs
individually connected to the CPU or the
host through the PCIe and all of the
GPUs are interconnected via NVLink.
NVL72 um a more recent addition from
Nvidia is also quite similar. It's a
collection of 72 GPUs connected via
NVLink. And from programmer's
perspective, um, that's essentially all
you need to know about NVLM2s.
So now, when you hear somebody saying
they're trying to optimize GPU kernels,
what they're usually saying is that
they're trying to make sure that all the
SM stay busy. Um, because as I said, SMS
contain all the flops, all the compute.
So you want them to be consuming those
precious flops all the time. So the way
you do that is um for single GPU kernels
you pipeline the memory loads and writes
such that you overlap uh computation
happening on SMS with the memory
operations um that reads from the HPM to
the um SMS such that when the current
round of computation is done um the data
for the next round of computation is
residing on the SMS and they're ready
for multi-GPU kernels um a simple a
similar idea applies except that you're
overlapping computation with
communication
uh with other GPUs such that when the
current computation is done, the data
for next computation is ready and
fetched uh from remote GPU HPMs. So
let's get back to PK. Um the PK is based
off three key trade-offs we identified
for multiGPU kernel design. The first
trade-off is a transfer mechanism. So it
turns out that there are three ways to
send data over NVLink. um one it's copy
engine two it's tensor memory
accelerators or TMAs three is a plain
register instructions like LD or SD each
has their own pros and cons and naively
relying on one transfer mechanism uh
leaves a lot of performance on the table
for example copy engine is ideal because
it's a separate DMA module sitting on
the GPU and it does not require any SMS
to transfer data between the GPUs but it
turns out that copy engine requires
really large message size or uh per uh
transfer data size for it to saturate
the NB link. And for fine grain
communication, you're usually sending a
few kilobytes of data. So uh copy engine
becomes a suboptimal choice.
TMA on the other hand um is able to
maintain relatively good throughput
regardless of the message size and it's
also able to do that with relatively few
SMS. Um so on Blackwell we find that
with roughly 15 SMS out of 148 um TMA is
able to saturate the NV link but TMA
also has its own downside because it's
not able to utilize all the in network
compute feature that we discussed
previously. Um if you want that you have
to use the register instructions but
register instructions are also big pain
because you have to think about
coallesing and register pressure. But
all the technical details aside, um the
point I'm trying to convey here is that
choosing the right transfer mechanism
for the given workload really matters.
Uh for example, for a commonly used
multi-GPU operator like all gather gem,
we find TMA to be quite optimal whereas
a lot of previous approaches just rely
on the copy engine. The second trade-off
is how we schedule um inter GPU
communication with intra GPU work. Um
and the strategies generally fall into
intraSM overlapping and interSM
overlapping. Um in intraSM overlapping
you have um certain number of threads
within SM uh performing compute
computation or memory work and rest of
the threads just doing the communication
work. Um this is also known as warp
specialization.
And in interSM overlapping, what you do
is you dedicate certain number of SMS
purely for communication and the rest
for computation. Again, each has their
own trade-offs, their own pros and cons.
For example, inter SM overlapping, as
you can probably tell from the diagram,
um kind of wastes compute because you're
putting certain number of SMS purely for
communication and all of the flops on
those FSMs are not getting utilized. And
because communication and computation
are happening on different SM, you have
to go through the memory system um the
L2 cache, the HPM in order to signal the
completion of communication and
computation with each other. But for
intra SM overlapping
um it's required that the computation
and communication are aligned. They have
to operate on the same data. Um
otherwise um you're running out of
registers, running out of onchip shared
memory. So you really cannot do any
useful computation. And also you have to
think about local prefetching because if
you look at this diagram again the red
arrow shows the data path taken when
you're accessing remote um GPU's HPM and
you can see that for the remote HPM the
data goes through the L2 cache but for
local GPU it does not go through the L2
cache. So this means that if you're
repeatedly accessing the same data for
example like KB cache during attention
kernels the data is only cached on the
far side GPU. So ideally what you want
to do is prefetch the data stage them
into local HPM before doing any major
computation and for you to do that um
you kind of have to rely on interm
overlapping scheduling strategy. So
again choosing the right strategy really
matters for performance for jam reduce
scatter we find intram to be most
optimal but for jam all reduce we find
intm to be most optimal schedule. The
third and final trade-off is the design
overhead. Um by design overhead um I'm
referring to design choices in
networking libraries that cost
performance for reducing complexity. Uh
for example, nickel's default mode uh
forces intermediate buffers um which
adds extra data movement between the
sender and the receiver and for fine
grain communication this overhead really
accumulates and by stripping it out you
can speed up an operation as simple and
basic as all reduce by up to 80%.
What this tells is that it's important
for modern GPU networking library to
explicitly expose such performance
critical controls instead of
encapsulating them. So I think I made
most of the points that I want to make
for today's talk. Um now I'm going to go
over parallel kittens framework but as I
said I'm going to make this really quick
and brief. So, parallel kittens builds
on all the trade-offs and principles
that we discussed and it's a highly
opinionated set of CUDA programming
primitives that extends thunder kittens
which is one of our previous works for
single GPU kernels.
Um, as we previously discussed a modern
GPU has memory hierarchy ranging from
registers um shared memory, L2 cache,
global memory and you can also think
about um remote GPU HBM as another layer
in the memory hierarchy. So pure global
memory and PK provides a data structure
for each layer in the memory hierarchy.
You have RT for registers, ST for shared
memory, um L2 cache is not programmable
on GPUs, um GL for global memory and
then PGL for pure global memory. And
what PK provides is various
communication primitives that um take in
these data structures and act on them
and that utilizes the most efficient
transfer mechanism for the given
functionality. And it also provides a
program template for consisting of four
different workers loader consumer
communicator and store to enable
different scheduling strategies. But
again for more details please refer to
our paper and our GitHub repo. Okay. So
to see the effectiveness of
effectiveness of PK, we compare it
against popular baselines across um data
tensor sequence and expert parallelism
as well as pure collective communication
like alt reduce. And what we find is
that with roughly 50 to 100 lines of
device code, um PK is able to surpass or
match hand optimized kernels that are
often hundreds to thousands lines of
code. And what I'm more particularly
proud of is the adoption. Um PK has been
adopted by major AI companies. For
example, cursor is using it to train
composer on tens of thousands of black
wall GPUs. Together, AI is also using it
to um optimize its inference workloads.
Okay, so that was it for my talk. I hope
you learned something about multiGPU
kernels and GPU networking today. And if
you work on ML systems and efficiency, I
hope you take a look at PK and give it a
shot. Um thank you so much for your
attention. [applause]
Okay, next up we have John.
Uh, awesome. Hey everybody. Um, thanks
for coming. Uh, today I'll be talking
about one of our recent papers called
intelligence per watt measuring the
intelligence efficiency of local and
cloud AI. Uh, this was a joint work with
one of my collaborators in laban.
Um, as well as our advisers, Professor
John Hennessy, Isal Huzzeni and Chris
Ray. Um so to kind of situate us um
today um we like to call at least
between me and Ivonica we like to call
the current era um of LMS and hardware
the mainframe era um alluding to the
previous era of mainframes which was in
the 50s and 60s um when IBM had these
computers that used to fill up entire
rooms sometimes entire floors. These
were the kinds of computers that got us
to the moon. These are the kinds of
computers that were the first kind of
commercial computers available for
businesses. Um, and that's kind of how
we're still constructing at least the
data centers today where you have these
warehouses filled with um TPUs or um
GPUs from uh Google and Nvidia
respectively. Um, and they're both doing
our training as well as our inference.
Um, and it makes sense because demand is
growing so substantially like we need to
satisfy that demand um and and scale out
uh compute as fast as possible. At the
same time, this is demand that we
haven't seen in a very long time, maybe
since the US like built its railroads
over the entire over the entire
continent. We're spending upwards of two
to 3% of GDP today. And that's demanding
250 gawatts of new data centers um which
requires new power sources, new GPUs,
new land, new water to actually handle
uh the demand for both training as well
as inference. At the same time, even
though the demand is going up so so
quickly year-over-year, a lot of these
requests don't necessarily need frontier
level intelligence to handle them. Um,
we each have our our different LM
workloads that we handle per day. And at
least for me personally, I know most of
my workloads don't necessarily need like
frontier level coding or frontier level
uh math LMS. A lot of them are going
through different kinds of data sets,
um, doing different kinds of plumbing
when it comes to organizing, organizing
folders, creating unit tests. And so
despite the fact that frontier level
intelligence is what we're we're
continuing to push and it's really
important that we we we continue to push
that out, there's a lot of smaller local
open source LMS that can actually
address the vast majority of LM traffic
today. And so what we're thinking is
that the same way that we shifted from
these mainframe um IBM computers that
filled up entire rooms um to uh PCs uh
from Apple and HP um in the 70s and 80s.
uh we will see something quite similar
happening for the hardware of today
where we're seeing this shift um away
from uh uh Nvidia GPUs and Google TPUs
for every single request uh more towards
u Mac um as well as Nvidia and AMD um
personal consumer GPUs uh that sit in
people's workstations and sit in
people's laptops. And this is being
driven by two main trends. One is the
fact that these smaller LM are getting
better year-over-year. we're seeing
smaller LMS, open source LMS that are
quite capable. Um, and it's only
accelerating. Um, combined with the fact
that local um, accelerators are also
getting much better. So, um, these are
accelerators from Apple, uh,
accelerators from Nvidia, accelerators
from AMD, um, we're seeing that these
GPUs are have more than enough memory to
handle, um, some of these larger open
source LMS. And so, we imagine to see
this trend um, continuing. So with this
study, we wanted to ask what role can
local inference uh with open source AI
play in redistributing the inference
demand from how it is today, which is
mostly in the cloud away towards more
distributed inference. And so to help us
kind of frame this study, uh we proposed
intelligence per watt. Um to talk about
the numerator and the denominator, um by
intelligence, we just mean capabilities.
And this looks very different depending
on the task that you care about, but
ultimately we care about chat reasoning,
agentic tasks, coding tasks, um
basically anything that people are using
LMS for today. At the same time, um the
denominator focuses on efficiency. And
this isn't just the efficiency in terms
of uh like the intelligence you can
deliver per parameter um or per bit of
uh information used for training. we're
we're talking about the actual um
compute um and energy required for
running these different accelerators um
for all of the different workloads that
people care about. So what is the what
is the actual like running uh power
wattage or wattage in terms of power for
actually delivering um that amount of
intelligence. And so for this study we
wanted to kind of do a broad sweep and
and see what the trends um were. We did
about 20 plus different state-of-the-art
local models um across Gemma, GBD OSS,
Quen, IBM Granite, all in the range of
one to 200 billion parameters, some
dense. At the same time, we wanted to
test the state-of-the-art accelerators,
particularly local accelerators over the
past two to three years. And so this was
from Apple, from Nvidia, from AMD, from
Zamanova to basically understand what
was the kind of upper bounds for
intelligence per watt and intelligence
per jewel. Um and we wanted to do this
across all the different workloads that
people care about. So chat reasoning
agentic uh coding tasks basically
anything that people are using these
models for today we wanted we wanted to
examine and we wanted to examine more
than just accuracy again yeah we cared
about latency we cared about energy we
cared about power we cared about compute
and we wanted to do a broad sweep and
kind of see see what made sense and what
we found was pretty compelling um we
found that um a lot of these local
models are quite good and they're
advancing um rather rapidly um up to
88.7% of the of these queries could
actually be routed to local accelerators
running local open source AI and that
accuracy is only going up. So in the
past two years alone um we've seen about
3x improvement in this intelligence
delivered per watt. At the same time
we're we're seeing this compound. So
this is combined um between the better
local models as well as the better local
accelerators. Um so it's kind of like
like building off of each other. Um at
the same time when you actually examine
intelligence per jewel as opposed to
intelligence per watt. So in this case,
we're looking at the total energy being
spent uh for the entire workload end to
end. That's compounding even more
rapidly. So in the past two years alone,
we've seen about an 18x well actually in
in less than in two years, in about 16
months, we've seen about an 18x
improvement um in the actual
intelligence delivered per jewel. And
this is primarily driven by better
accelerators. And so this is by more
memory being placed on um consumer GPUs
such as the Apple M4 Maxum as well as
the um DJX Spark from Nvidia. This is
also uh from better quantization
techniques that can better take
advantage of that compute available um
as well as just like longer
pre-training, more post-training um and
just more sophisticated techniques for
actually making these models better. And
so what does this actually entail for
the way that we think about
redistributing this inference? This
means that if you were to actually route
like perfectly, you could route 80% uh
somewhere between 80 to 90% of the
queries of today to these local
accelerators running these local open
source LMS. And that means energy
savings. That means compute savings.
That means cost savings. Even imperfect
routers can save somewhere between 50 to
70% of your energy, of your compute, of
your dollar cost. And so this
fundamentally changes the economics of
how we how we actually scale inference
and how we think about um building up
new data centers and also just investing
um and new computing lines of hardware
and models. At the same time, local
accelerators aren't perfect. Um, one of
the nice advantages of data center
compute is you can do all sort of
sophisticated techniques around kernel
writing, around batching, around
different kinds of quantization um that
allow you to kind of immortise um the
investment um across more and more users
and across more and more queries. And so
the Apple M4 Max compared to the Nvidia
B200 is still lagging behind
particularly when it comes to um
intelligence, intelligence per watt and
intelligence per jewel. Um at the same
time there's even more specialized
accelerators for inference such as the
Samanova SN40L um that see that that uh
for which um consumer accelerators are
lagging even more behind. So there is a
little bit of an investment opportunity
to make these consumer accelerators
better and better. Um and so we're
excited to see um what uh the different
companies release. Um just want to thank
um our collaborators on this project um
from Nvidia, from Google, from Apple,
AMD, Open Router, Samova um without
their resources and without their guid
guidance it wouldn't have been possible
to do this study. um what are we looking
for next? I'm really excited to see how
inference engines change for this new
kind of dynamic where you're leveraging
both local resources as well as cloud
resources. Um at the same time, I think
there's a a huge opportunity to think
about model architectures and kernels um
focused specifically on energy efficient
uh inference. Um and so this could uh
lead to different kinds of accelerator
architecture code designs that make this
possible and accelerate this trend. Um
on the actual analysis side, I'm
actually excited to kind of break down
um the intelligence per watt metrics
even more and see how we can separate
out um how this looks across different
tasks, across different hardware, across
different deployment settings, looking
at the inference engines, looking at the
kernels, looking at the um the actual
compute and memory on the hardware. Um
and finally, um while we focus on
intelligence per watt here, I think it's
really important to consider how this
intelligence is actually being used in a
useful manner. So, how we're actually
using this uh to do meaningful work that
people care about and that people that
humans would have to do otherwise. So,
quantifying how that affects GDP, how
that affects um wages, that's u another
interesting thing that we'll be
releasing quite soon. If you have any
questions, please feel free to reach
out. I'm available um over email, over
Twitter, over GitHub. Um so, I'd love to
chat um if anybody's excited uh about
these same topics. Um, we also have a
follow-up project called Open Jarvis
that's focused on kind of
operationalizing a lot of these insights
and making it possible to run the entire
kind of personal AI coding stack um on
device. So, you don't need to, you know,
pay pay cloud or pay OpenAI anymore for
for your LMS. You can instead just run
it on on your laptop and on your
workstation. Um, so if you're excited by
that as well, please reach out. Um,
thank you so much.
Okay, next up we have Mark.
>> All right. Well, can folks hear me?
Okay. Yeah. Thank you so much for
inviting me. Um, so I heard in Stuart's
like really nice talk a bunch of
questions around like how good are AI
like AIS at writing kernels. So this is
kind of going to be like the gist of my
talk. We're going to go like very deep
in this topic. I worked a lot on systems
like for about like five years working
on PyTorch. Um, I also worked a lot on
like custom kernels like as part of like
co-founding GPU mode. And I think this
has been one of my main focuses at Core
Auto. So I'm hoping to give you both
like a research and commercial angle to
like a lot of this research. So um this
is this is a YC paper club. So the the
the sort of like main lessons are drawn
from these two papers. Colonel bot which
is a competitive platform to basically
it's like leak code for GPU programmers.
And then the second one is kernel guard
which is like our platform for detecting
against cheating. And I'll kind of
explain why these are like the one and
the same problem. So I'm a systems
researcher and I've had to sort of
accept that like my opinion matters less
than AI researchers because what I want
is I want people to just take the same
data keep running a matal on it over and
over again and give me AGI but what my
colleagues in research want is like they
want something that's auto reggressive
they want like lots of tiny kernels they
want dynamic control flow they want
sparity and a lot of it and they want
print statements like all of these
things are hate and they should stop
doing this okay thank you all right
Unfortunately, you know, I can't do
this, right? Um, and so I have to work
with with these people and give them
tools. And so the the the way we
typically do this is we give them
programming languages. So one sort of
pro you might not think of it as a
programming language, but it is like
like math. Math is beautiful because
it's forward compatible. So for example,
the matrix multiplication API has been
forward compatible for like 250 years.
It's AB and then equals C and then maybe
you add some args or KS, but it's the
same API. PyTorch is like in very much
in a similar vein like basically the
sort of forward facing fronted API of
PyTorch like its ops like MM softmax uh
QR decomp like all these things will
stand the test of time ultimately these
dispatch down to individual CUDA kernels
that may or may not be very fast on
modern hardware which is why we get
programming languages like Triton which
are a tilebased they're pythonic they're
fast Trident took over the world about
like two and a half years ago um but
recently especially starting with
Blackwell people are like well you know
the Trident's programming model is like
very restrictive. It's not letting me
write state-of-the-art kernels. So,
people have been very interested in
programming languages such as
ThunderCons, which like Stuart helps
maintain. Um, Cutless and QDSL, which
are closed source libraries by Nvidia
for like really state-of-the-art
mattles. CUDA, which is like a more
general programming model. It's not just
for matte. It's a thread-based
programming model. It's really great for
surgical improvements, but it's quite
tedious to write. and sort of like at
the sort of like lowest end you have
like the what the cracked people do
which is like write BTX or inline SAS um
typically there there are no like BC
guarantees so like it's not that like
it's hard to do it it's just that like
your code will stop working if you
change architecture that's less pleasant
that's very timeconuming typically
people like all the maintainers of these
libraries and users of them like have
like very strong opinions about like
what's actually the best trade-off
between performance and productivity
right it's sort of like you just have to
know where on the spectrum you are how
how much do you care about performance?
And you can typically figure out like
what your opinion actually is, but
there's no wrong opinion. But, you know,
if like we were to sort of like try to
benchmark this a bit and say, okay,
let's do like a leaderboard, right?
Let's say we we have a problem like a
QRD composition problem. I'll explain
what that is in a second. And the goal
is for people to submit kernels to this
problem. What's really like what I've
been working on in GP1 is this platform
called kernelbot where people just make
submissions. they can pick any library
they want and then we can basically do
data analysis and see like which
libraries are actually popular and what
do people actually use and at least like
for this archetype of people that just
want state-of-the-art PF as far as I can
tell like they really prefer like uh
CUDA and it was only when we were doing
lots of gem related problems that people
like loved using cute DSL but you know
Trident shows up often in the top five
to 10 rarely shows up in the top two so
this is how you should sort of broadly
think about it so what's funny though is
that like you know I spent all this year
working on like these Galaxy Brain, you
know, programming languages and like
compilers. And then uh starting this
January, you know, we did this like very
like, you know, prolific like this very
popular competition on NVFP4 kernels and
people who've never written GPU kernels
before started to get really competitive
results. They were like in the top four
and the top five. So this is Shiao. He's
a researcher. He's he's like a grad
student in China and reached out to me.
He's like, I've never written a GPU
before. I've never written an open AUDA
book before. you know, everything is LM
generated, but I'm like number four. And
this post of mine made it to R
singularity, which is interesting. This
my was my first cameo on the subreddit.
Uh, but then I was like, okay, this is
weird. And people told me, well, but
this guy is like smart, right? Like he's
a researcher. Obviously, he gets it.
He's computational numerical. But then I
saw this other tweet by Clark, uh, who's
a high school teacher, and he's telling
me, oh, hey, I just wrote like my first
like like dual gem problem. And I'm
like, what? Like you, you know,
typically where like there's an order,
right? you have to start with vector sum
and vector mean and then you do matt
mole and then you do this other stuff
and here people were just like yoloing
it and they're getting competitive
results they're looking at the kernels
they're having a good time and so as an
educator and as like a builder of
libraries this is like very very strange
to me like I I actually despite working
on this field did not expect these
results to come so quickly so I want to
briefly talk about like how do we
typically evaluate like how good AIs are
at writing these kinds of kernels and a
lot of this framework is borrowed from
like Simon and An's work on kernel bench
But like the sort of framework is the
following. Like you typically have some
sort of PyTorch reference because we
sort of all agree in the community that
PyTorch is generally more correct than
most libraries but not more performant.
You basically pick like you sample some
random inputs. You uh then have another
like reference submission and in your
favorite kernel DSL. You run an eval.py
where you just like set you just pass
both inputs through both. You see if
they're equivalent. You check for
correctness. You check for performance.
And then you rank something on
leaderboard. Right. So this is this is
the basic framework of how all these uh
these evals work.
So if you've been working in AI, you're
like, "Oh, it's like verifiable rewards.
It's an easy problem, right?" And you
know, when people tell me this, this is
me. I'm like, "Okay." Like I actually um
I I actually disagree. Like basically
there's like a very hidden nuance here.
And I think we'll we'll sort of dive in.
So I'm going to give you an example. I'm
If you've never written a CUDA kernel
before, you're going to do one with me
right now. So what we're going to do is
we're going to write the world's fastest
vector mean kernel. So basically given a
vector which is like a you know like a
like a like a onedimensional vector
sorry like yeah one dimensional vector
we're going to just take the average of
it right so great so what we're going to
do is we're going to sample a bunch of
like random inputs right like from a
vector so like a vector of like length a
million this is great we're going to
take it's the mean of this vector um
okay so this is basically our reference
so what our kernel is going to do we're
going to write a kernel and then uh you
know the hint here is that torture then
samples values with mean zero variance
one by default
So the world's fastest vector mean
kernel just returns zero. So you've like
this this actually beats the speed of
light. It's like a wonderful algorithm.
You know like Nvidia would love to hire
you. It's like life is good. But this
was like not one one isolated example
like I've pretty much like read a lot of
like reward hacks. And so like one
common one is that the AIS will cache
the output and then like reuse it and
then do something equivalent. So you're
like okay I want to ban this, right? So
one version of it might be uh you know
you use data pointers to figure out like
what the past state is in Python and
then you like return that. So you're
like okay so you'll put in your eval
suite you cannot use data pointer right
so then turns out python is like a very
interesting language and instead of like
doing the dot you can say get attribute
and you get data pointer okay so now you
ban the string data pointer so I've seen
that AI has also split that data pointer
into two different cars and append them
and they'll do them in different lines
so you can't catch it easily with a reax
u and then you know like okay well you
know sure let's say you ban data pointer
out right people get upset and then okay
like you can just use ID and my point is
like this is very much a chicken and egg
problem. Like this just keeps happening
and it's just cuz like Python is a
dynamic language which makes it like a
terrible choice for these things. So one
one of my favorite examples was like
this was by by Natalya who's a who's a
student at Stanford at the time who
showed me this like the craziest reward
hack I've ever seen. So the the essence
of this reward hack was it noticed that
during our correctness suites we were
checking for correctness 15 times and
then we would do performance testing.
But when we were doing performance
testing we weren't doing correctness
testing again. So what the AI was doing
is it was counting how many times it did
correctness testing and giving us a
correct but slow kernel. But then when
it came time to do performance testing
it was giving us an incorrect kernel but
still like batching all the results
together and like basically u making
everything good. So turns out there's a
precedent for this reward hack. It's
actually a Volkswagen. So what they did
so this is like called dieselgate. So
what they did was um under emission
testing the car would detect I am under
emissions testing and reduce emissions
by 40x but on the real world it would
just like emit a lot more crap and then
that worked. So so this you know it
conceived and and and you know big
credit to tenderization who who pointed
this out to me on Twitter. Basically I
was like on this like brutal on call
load where we kept like reviewing reward
hacks and people tell me like Mark like
your eval sucks like why can't you
detect these issues? But I'm like this
is a lot and they're all different. like
it's not at all how to code obvious how
to codify it. So I was like okay look if
if people are mostly going to submit to
our competitions with AI well I'm mostly
going to review it with AI as well. So
the main idea was uh as a human if I see
something that's really fast I audit it.
I mark it as like a reward hack. I then
provide that as an example to like an AI
system. I get this AI system to sort of
synthesize a reax based cheat detector.
You deploy that rejax and you can catch
a lot of cheaters and as if there's like
sort of new things you sort of retrain
the model. Um so this idea was like by
Sinatraas who's like one of the like GPU
mode maintainers. Um but again if we had
more funding we just use a model but
this is like very fast and like so sort
of like very snappy. I want to talk
about like a recent problem that we had
that was interesting. So uh this is like
one of my colleagues like Rohan is like
very into this like optimizer called
shampoo. You might have followed it on
Twitter. He was like beefing with with
Jordan Keller about like whether Muan is
shampoo or not. It's very interesting.
Um but like one of the reasons why like
uh what shampoo isn't more deployed is
because it depends on this algorithm
called the QR factorization which is
like very very slow in PyTorch. So like
I saw this as an opportunity to sort of
monetize the beef and make like a very
old algorithm like much faster. So, so
the basic idea of u of of of QR de
composition is that like you have a
matrix A and you want to decompose it
into two matrices like one is Q which is
an orthogonal matrix which means the
transpose is equal to the inverse and an
upper triangular matrix and again this
is like very useful to sort of like
guess the curvature of your space which
is useful for second order methods and a
torch like like the algorithm to like
sorry the function the API to use this
in PyTorch is is is basically just calls
leak under the hood for CPU or Q solver
for GPU both of these libraries I think
need a lot more love. They need a lot
more maintainers. So they've been sort
of get swallowed up by deep learning
ops. And it was like really cool. We
basically turned this into a problem for
the community and like basically
collectively together we did this like
broad search over humans and AIS to get
like a kernel that's 60 times faster and
like it doesn't nan which is great. Like
we can actually use this in real
training runs. What's really weird about
these kernels is that they're quite
long. So for example, the average
submission here is on the order of like
15,000 lines of code because it's a
single kernel per shape. And like no
human would ever do this because a human
is like we have sort of this bias this
towards like beauty, towards simplicity,
towards elegance. The eyes don't seem to
particularly care. Um so what they do is
they basically implement like a
dispatcher where they're like, okay,
well if the shapes are small, hey, maybe
I should do like a shared memory QR, but
if it's like really big, I should do a
global memory QR. I could have custom
schedules. For shapes that get tested a
lot, I will use uh I will use lower
precision. I will use higher precision,
but for shapes that aren't tested a lot,
I can cheat the benchmark hardness and
use like a lower precision shape. And so
then you have to look at this like then
at the end of this, we have like tens of
thousands of submissions. Um each of
which is 10 tens of thousands of lines
long. So we have like a few million like
tokens of this. And we're looking at
this and we're like, okay, can we
synthesize this to into like actual like
beautiful and elegant kernel? turns out
like not so obvious. I haven't figured
that out. That's actually an open
problem. But like you know, we we did
read the three fastest kernels very
carefully. So myself and one of my
colleagues like Marcus was a one of the
FA4 co-authors, you know, we're like
trying to sort of explain to people how
do you write these kernels and this is
what we came up with. We're like look
for step one is you understand how the
GPU memory hierarchy hierarchy works and
step two is you write a very fast kernel
and like this is so sort of sounds
physicious. It's like it's correct,
maybe not very actionable, but you know,
like like this is directionally what
what we want to do. The last thing I
want to sort of talk about here is that
like a big part of what makes our
leaderboards work is that like as by
virtue of people competing more, more
reward hacks get found out. As a result,
our eval gets more robust. To me, this
like flywheel is reminiscent like when
people say, "Oh, PyTorch is more
correct." Like PyTorch wasn't born
correct. PyTorch was slowly made to be
correct. And the idea was, you know, at
first it was sort of like vibe coded in
the sense of like it was a PC that
ported Torch to Python. So basically it
just like went from Lua to PyTorch Ops
and you could like it was verifiable
because it's like PyTorch to Lua torch
which goes back to NumPy which goes back
to like Leak which goes back to forran.
So we all sort of like we have this
chain of correctness.
Um we worked with a lot of researchers.
They told us what they wanted. They
pointed out bugs. we fix them and then
you know it turns out if you repeat this
over nine years and you maintain strong
like BC numeric guarantees you'll get
like a very popular library and this is
like a very good process I don't know
how like what's the right way to do this
like purely with AI like but but I
suspect the way we've done things in an
adversarial way with kernel guard and
colonel bot is like probably like a good
hint as to how we should approach these
problems so yeah thank you I guess if
you're interested in some of these
problems like feel free to reach out to
me I guess on Twitter or like
hello@coreauto.com
[snorts] um I can tell you about like
what I think are some important
important open problems that I don't
think like get enough nearly enough
attention that are very different from
like just like asking codeex to go cook.
So basically the the kernelms are very
like good at like exacerbating AMDall's
law effects. So basically like they will
find all like bottlenecks in a system
whether it be compilation times whether
it like like anything that involves
waiting is very bad. So as a result, I'm
very interested if people have any ideas
on ways of speeding up like compilation.
So faster JITs, f like more efficient
like AOT packaging of things like
Trident and QDSL are things I'm very
interested in. Uh CPU simulators of GPUs
are quite good. I think a lot of people
have been joking around like how Fable
is just like phenomenal at this kind of
work. U this is the kind of work I'd
love to see because if you can spin up
CPU simulators, that means you don't
need a lot of GPUs for doing rollouts.
Um similarly if you want to deploy these
kernels in a real inference engine well
inference engines like let's say out of
the box if you to use something like SG
lang or VLM if it's just loading
deepseeek before the first inference
maybe you'll wait about 30 minutes like
this really sucks for an AI system. I'm
also very curious to hear takes on how
to more robustly verify kernel
correctness. Like the way we do it today
is we just take random inputs. Some
people tell me formal verification is
the way. I'd love to hear more ideas
that are cheaper than training a model
because that's like kind of probitative.
Um I'm also curious what people think
about like what's sort of in between
like you know you can sort of we can
read code line by line to verify its
correctness and we can test it a lot.
None of these answers feel very
satisfying to me. So I'm curious if
people have intermediate takes and the
last one is like basically people have
been joking that GP mode has become pay
to win. uh that sucks and so I think
it's become pay to win because the test
time scaling is happening over days or
like basically on the order of one or
two weeks. So given that we know how to
solve this problem in these like longer
periods, can we speedrun it in a couple
of hours or a couple of days? I if you
if you have any ideas, I'd love to hear
from you. So thank you.
[applause]
>> Okay, next up, Misha. Thank you.
Can everyone hear me? Okay, cool. Yeah.
Hi everyone. Uh I am Mishas Manski.
uh I
uh joined a startup called uh Marlo
almost a month ago and uh the startup uh
the idea is that it's focused on
building workload optimized
heterogeneous uh infrastructure
and the main premise is that uh
inference is a very heterogeneous
workload right uh different phases of
inference exercise
compute network
uh storage
uh memory bandwidths differently and so
when we look at it uh it makes sense to
actually uh co-design uh the systems
that will opt you know use different
hardware different systems for uh
different phases so I'll give a couple
of examples today uh I just want to
caveat it uh with the fact that uh there
is no data I'm not going to show you any
data right now uh But I will try and
drive those arguments from the first
principles. But I'm also happy to to be
debated on them. This is probably very
well familiar to everybody. This is a
life cycle uh lifetime of an inference
uh request. Uh and it basically you know
user enters a prompt right there is a
you know CPU system that orchestrates
and schedules and you know batches it
right? Then it goes through the prefix
cache looks up the prefix cache and you
know whatever is left of the prom that's
not cached it does the prefill and
prefills are usually very compute
intensive there they're done on
accelerators right uh there is also you
know the KV cache creation and that can
involve you know CPU or or other
accelerators memory which is
uh can go over the network, right? And
then there is the auto reggressive
decode that basically does one uh token
uh at a time for a given stream, right?
Which is also very memory intensive and
very latency sensitive uh and then you
you produce the result and there is also
a speculative uh decode along along the
way that basically speculates on on you
know the next batch of tokens which then
needs to be verified with a with a main
model. So the main point is that uh
different phases trigger uh different
hardware right and the bottlenecks just
keep moving there is no one thing. So
I'm sorry the slide is a little bit busy
but I felt u you know compelled to uh
put it um so I just basically want to
talk a little bit about fundamental
characteristics of prefill and decode.
Um you know the main uh metric here is
what's we called arithmetic intensity.
Arithmetic instensity is basically the
ratio of the amount you know of the
flops that your fundamental like
algorithm does to the amount of data
that it moves uh from memory right and
if that ratio is actually greater than
corresponding machine ratio which is a
you know ratio between peak machine
flops and peak memory bandwidth that's
greater then your kernel or algorithm is
compute bound if it's lower then it's
memory memory bandwidth bound right and
two um like this is a roof line and I'm
sure a lot of you are well familiar. It
was actually created for HPC back in
like early 2012 2013 by somebody Sam
Williams from Berkeley who basically
tried to explain uh the behavior like to
to try to model the behavior of
different HPC HPC applications and the
idea is that you have a arithmetic
intensity along X-axis right and for a
given intensity you have basically how
much flops you can achieve and so if you
arithmetic intensity is less than your
machine ratio you're in memory bound
bandwidth boundaries and if it's region
if it's greater then you're in compute
boundary and of course the reality is
much more complicated uh than that but
that kind of gives you a first degree of
approximation right and so like if you
look at preill and decode right you can
actually see that even like attention
and um and ma mae kernels right MLP
You know they all have different
arithmetic intensity like prefield is
generally very compute bound right
because you basically do like attention
you do u a lot of work per s you know
per you know all the tokens that you are
fetching right you can fetch the weights
y once and you operate on all of them
right the MLP is even more intensive
because you can actually batch things
right uh and so it's pretty compute
bound like the code is different like
the code you actually work on you know
one token at a time it's auto regressor
so attention is really horrible it's
like you're fetching you know as a
weight for every tokens that you want to
process right uh so it's not very you
know it's it's really inefficient right
the
MLP is a little bit better because
you're actually you can actually batch
it but in reality batches are not that
big you know the machines are like
modern
accelerator have a lot of compute. So
you end up being uh bandwidth bound for
you know pretty large batches as well.
So the main idea here is you know that
uh even within a prefilled decode you
have quite a bit of diversity of
of behaviors and how different kernels
stress the system. So you can kind of up
level up level this a little bit and
this slide basically shows like
different use cases and you can see that
inference spans a very large space of
workloads like you can go and start. So
the the
each circle here the size of the circle
like bigger the larger the concurrency
right and for each uh use case we're
like showing how much time you spend in
prefill versus decode like so for
interactive chats you know you're
basically you know you're entering some
prompt and then maybe you get some
answer and but generally it's like I
don't know 30 70 50/50 ratio between the
prefill and decode um and it's very
strict latency is sensitive, right? For
some for like long context uh queries,
right? You basically spend all the time
in prefill, right? And then, you know,
you get a answer, right? You you do
decode, but most of the time you spend
on prefill. That's why the blue dot
here, you know, has, you know, like a
long blue line, right? And for coding
agents uh and and their latency you know
you uh are probably also have a strict
latency requirements for something like
long longunning agents you have long
input long outputs you left your cloud
you know like run overnight like you
know to to build your uh so you know
your your code base right and so it's
also can be high concurrency and latency
is relax so I think I don't want to
belabor the point main point is that you
know inference spends also a very uh
large uh space of workloads. And so
before I continue, I want to just quick
uh do a quick detour and talk a little
bit about SRAM machines like those
machines became very popular um like in
the last uh decade, right? And you know
why what's so good about the SR machine?
Basically uh today when you want to do
the like gem for example on on GPU right
and if the weights are large if they you
know more larger than the size of your
undai caches you have you you have to go
to memory right you have to go to hbm
and you have to fetch it basically over
you know the unpackage interconnect into
your uh GPU and so you know if uh you
have large weight matrix you have to do
it for every token so it's inefficient
Right. Um then the estra machine
basically keeps the entire weight matrix
in estra memory on die. So uh the you
get lot more bandwidths right because uh
it's on chip right so you can access you
know uh bytes over cycles right the chip
interconnect is also fast you can go
like uh between different units uh in in
a couple of cycles right so everything
is kind of kept on so they're very
efficient right so I call them uh GMV
like matrix vector multiplication
accelerators right which is happens to
be like really good uh for decode
because decode is very very uh bandwidth
bound. They offer you like significantly
more bandwidth right and uh
significantly lower latency but there is
a catch because it's all on die you know
there is only that much many transistors
you can you can pack right you're
limited by the retical limit of your die
area right and so because of that uh the
amount of capacity you can put is
limited like if you look at different
accelerators you have between like tens
to like hundreds uh uh like to between
hundreds of megabytes to like tens of
gigabytes of memory but that's it right
and uh but it moves them much faster. So
the question is how do you leverage
them? How do you make sure right that uh
your your the model even after you know
the model is charted you still see uh
the benefit after model is shed between
many chips you still see a benefit and
how to characterize this benefit. So I
want to I want to talk about I want
basically a couple of examples uh where
uh now I'm switching gears like talking
about like different systems may not
does not have to be you know a GPU on a
SRAM machine but uh I just want to give
examples of how uh specialization could
help like people know very well like
prefield and decode disagregation right
the people separate them because it uh
lets like each of them scale
independently like removes the like
shared bottlenecks, right? And so you
can basically say the question what ask
the question like what what if instead
of disagregating uh prefill and decode
on two different systems, you
disagregate decode on a different
system. Let's call system A does
prefill, system B does does decode,
right? When is it beneficial? When is it
actually beneficial? And it's and it's
uh like if you think about it from a TCO
point of view and what we talk about is
like tokens per second per watt. It's
actually beneficial when the additional
uh power that you know your system B
adds is offset by the speed ups that it
brings. And you can imagine like if you
have a really short sequence length,
right? You spend a lot of time in
prefill, right? And so your your
benefits may not be as pronounced as you
can see this uh for short output
lengths, you know, you have actually a
TCO loss because you just bundled a
bunch of new hardware and you're not
using it. As you increase output length,
you're actually spending more time.
you're doing decode spending more time
on you know system B and so then you uh
at some point you may become TCO
positive okay so the other example I
want to give is
the AFD uh so as as I talked about
earlier attention and ME part have very
different uh characteristics right so
one way uh to accelerate this workload
is to run uh attention uh on um system A
and run uh the MEE on system B right so
what's going to happen like let's say
example you know of of GPU right like we
know very well that GPUs are really good
at high throughput they operate with
very like high concurrency they deliver
amazing results you you know your
compute bound right and your latencies
uh can be lower right but um you know
the moment um that you start basically
going [snorts] to lower concurrency
because you want better interactivity
and better latency, right? the u the the
performance uh the throughput drops and
it drops very sharply because all of a
sudden you have a lot of like smaller
kernels you have a lot of overheads you
know you're bound you're you know your
memory bandwidths you're bound by memory
bandwidth and also memory bandwidth is
not utilized very well because of all
this overheads and so at this point uh
you might say okay what happens you know
if I introduce uh the system B that is
really good at running you know those
you know memory bandwidths latency bound
uh bound kernels right uh at the point
where say GPU interactivity
uh uh goes goes down right and uh like
for example you can consider offloading
some of those uh uh nasty MA kernels
like to SRM machine right and because
everything is on die right they have low
latency they'll they'll that can do
quite well uh for for small batch and
all of a sudden you see that your
interactivity kernel life of your
interactivity has has been extended. Now
what happens to the TCO? Uh the TCO uh
may not be as great as running it at a
very uh high concurrency but at the same
time for use cases where actually
interactivity matters more uh than TCO
uh it may be a sensible approach because
there is a point beyond which like GPU
cannot deliver more interactivity and
this extent extends the life. So that's
kind of the idea of the disagregation
of attention and
mae right and the other last example I'm
going to give is uh basically in case
like for speculative decoding I think
everybody knows what speculative
decoding is right you have a d you have
a you know the the drafter that
basically
speculates on subsets of tokens either
router regressively or in parallel
through black diffusion Right? Then the
verifier verifies uh them
and uh in parallel right and uh whatever
uh number it accepts that's how much you
can you can you you can you can fast
forward right so you can uh imagine that
you can run your uh drafter on system B
right your verifier runs on system A but
you can run your drafter instead of
running it also on system A uh you run
it on system B and I don't mean like
sharing exactly the same hardware. You
can you can run it across like different
um different like for for system A you
can still run you know verifier on one
system and uh drafter on another and for
system B just offload you know the uh
the drafter uh to system B entirely and
is the drafter allows you much better
perh
acceptance rate because it can run much
larger model at the same rate as a
system A uh can run right uh then you
can actually see the wins. You can see
the wins in terms of latency. It will
reduce the latency because maybe system
A cannot run such a large model. It
takes time and you can also bundle
multiple verifiers to the same decor to
improve the TCO. Okay, just to uh wrap
it up, uh what I was talking about, I
was talking about end to end code design
of the heterogeneous
uh infrastructure and that's a really
full stack problem, right? Uh there are
many interesting aspects of it. There is
a you know data center aspect like when
you put heterogeneous uh systems in the
same data center what does it mean for
power density for cooling for brake
configs for managing like a lot of your
uh problems kind of uh become like that
you have in a homogeneous environment
they become harder right u there is u
you know the networking problem I didn't
talk about it much but obviously anytime
you move data between system A and
system B networking is a bottleneck so
how do you build it co-design it
together like where do you connect them
under what network topology you know so
that your um your latency is reasonable
and doesn't kill advantages. Uh and so
obviously one thing you also need
performance modeling uh infrastructure
you need a really good simulator to
allow you to go through a lot of design
points [snorts] and figure out like what
makes sense and it needs to be well
calibrated. Uh but that's really how
you're going to guide your uh code
design. So that's um basically what we
are starting to do. Thank you.
All right,
next up, Brennan.
>> Uh, hey, thanks for having me. Really
appreciate it. Uh, so I'm going to be
presenting some work that I did at
Stanford a couple years ago during my
PhD. [snorts] Since moved on and I'm
doing an AI plus gaming startup, but you
know, credit where credit is due. This
is firmly Stanford work uh in Kavon
Fhallian's group uh at Stanford. So,
what I'm going to be talking about is
basically this hypothetical idea of what
if we put an entire game engine that can
kind of simulate any game you can
imagine and put it all on the GPU and
run it super fast. And I'll talk about
how we did that at Stanford over this
project which ran for a couple years.
So, the reason we cared about this is
that games are a great learning
environment for a bunch of different
tasks. So, I did a lot of work with
roboticists, people doing self-driving
car research, game developers
themselves. They're just a really great
platform for learning skills in
simulation in a lowcost way.
But honestly, somewhat surprisingly,
game engines are really inefficient for
the throughput oriented training
workload if you just do the obvious
thing, which is run like a thousand
copies of the engine in parallel because
you'll have all of these copies fighting
with each other. you can't amortize any
costs and you wind up using both the CPU
and the GPU hardware really really
inefficiently. So the better solution to
this is what we called batch simulators
where you have a single game engine if
you will that actually simulates a batch
of a thousand learning environments kind
of simultaneously in a big throughput
oriented batch that runs on the GPU. Uh
hopefully this loads. So this is a
visualization of OpenAI's old
hideand-seek environment. It was a
multi-agent reinforcement learning
environment and that kind of gives you a
sense of how many of those environments
we were actually able to fit on a single
GPU and you can wind up getting
throughput of like millions of frames
per second of experience which is
incredibly useful for like data hungry
algorithms like RL.
Now, the challenge with building this
that we ran into is that existing GPU
programming frameworks are a really poor
fit for the gameplay logic that you
actually need to write to build these
environments. And when you're trying to
build these environments, you really
want to be able to kind of create them
super easily, experiment with different
mechanics, different ideas. So, here's
an example of some of the logic from
that OpenAI hideandsek environment.
Agents kind of need to run around and
use the objects to like hide from each
other. They can lock objects, move them
around, and so on. And what you wind up
with is a bunch of super branchy code.
Some of these internal functions wind up
doing dynamic memory allocation. If you
know anything about GPU programming,
[snorts] a lot of this is starting to
sound like really bad news from a
performance standpoint. Interestingly,
the game industry has actually already
pretty much solved this problem for
parallel CPU code, right? So most
gameplay logic for a game that you might
play actually runs on the CPU. Uh but
because we're moving from a latency
sensitive workload where you're trying
to, you know, play a video game and you
want fast response times to a throughput
oriented workload for training, we can
actually almost like one for one adapt
those to GPU execution, those design
patterns and get a really efficient end
result. Uh these design patterns are
referred to as entity component system
uh design patterns in the game industry.
I don't worry I'll define what exactly
that means and I'm going to be talking
about how we run it on the GPU. So the
first concept is entities. That's the E
and ECS. So that might be like obstacles
in the environment or the agents in
blue, the little blue guys. Um then we
also have components. So these are the
data that's attached to each entity. Uh
so this might be something like the
position rotation and then you might
have like action and reward from your
reinforcement learning system. And the
ECS basically takes all of this data and
puts it in big in-memory column stores.
And for the GPU, we actually just put
these all in GPU memory and then pack a
bunch of learning environments all
together into kind of these unified
column stores. So you see that green
column is like what environment does
each of these individual objects map
back to. And this unified table storage
as it turns out is a really powerful way
that we can actually do throughoriented
dynamic memory allocation on the GPU
while hiding it behind a really easy to
use interface which is just like create
an obstacle, create an agent. This makes
it incredibly easy to do like procedural
generation tasks where you might have
you know different numbers of obstacles
in each environment which is the case
for the hide-and-seek environment that I
was showing you. These things are very
tricky to do in you know like a
tensorbased programming language like
PyTorch where you're looking at fixed
size arrays. And then the third concept
the S in ECS is the systems. So these
are the actual code that runs over the
entities the rows in these tables and
actually builds the logic. So that might
be you know processing the actions from
a neural network from your agent uh
implementing collision detection or
computing rewards for the RL system. So
for example the process actions
component the way that it works is it
declares I want to run on every entity
that has a position and an action
component. So in this case the agents
have those two columns. This logic will
run over every single row in this table.
And that's the same example I was
showing earlier. And on the GPU, it's
actually incredibly simple. All that we
have to do is map kind of one invocation
of this function to one GPU thread, and
we're able to get massive parallelism.
For the programming language nerds out
there, another really nice aspect of
this system is it actually allows you to
do runtime type polymorphism. So the
collision system just says, "Hey, I need
things that have a position and a
bounding box." And it turns out both
agents and obstacles have all of those
components. And interestingly, the
collision system doesn't actually need
to know about either of those types.
Traditionally in CPU code, you use like
virtual dispatch for this, which is
incredibly inefficient on the GPU
because it breaks kind of statically
knowing register assignments and
introduces a ton of issues like that. So
to actually make a game out of all of
this, we take a bunch of those
individual systems and combine them
together into a task graph that
describes how does the overall frame
work. How do we go from taking in some
actions from agents and then actually
updating the state of the world. There's
quite a lot to it. This is actually a
pretty small subset that goes through
physics, observation generation for the
agents and so on. Unfortunately, I don't
have the time to go into a lot of the
low-level implementation details uh to
actually make the memory allocation in
those tables efficient. We're we're
taking advantage of the fact that this
is a throughput oriented workload and we
actually do something akin to garbage
collection on the GPU where we kind of
append rows and then mark rows as
deleted and then use a super high
performance uh GPU sort to kind of clean
that all up after the fact. Um, and then
the task graph is actually implemented
with a persistent mega kernel that's
kind of constantly churning through the
work that's remaining in the frame. And
I mean, as many of like the Thunder
Kittens, Parallel Kittens type people
will, you know, be very familiar with,
the GPU just has incredibly good fast
atomics that let you do all of this
synchronization really efficiently. And
I can actually show you that here. So,
this is a visualization where every row
is an SM on the GPU. And you can think
of it as like the amount that each kind
of colored bar is full in each row is
telling you how active is that SM. So
he's pretty active is what's happening
most of the time. And the different
colors correspond to different systems
in the task graph. Um between each kind
of set of colors you'll see like these
slight vertical white lines. So that's
synchronization points in the frame
where we're switching between workloads.
But you can see it's like under 1% of
the overall uh work. We're actually
pretty much fully utilizing the GPU. In
this case, this is shown on a RTX 4090
simulating of I think 4,000 worlds of
that hideand-seek environment. And we
built for the initial version of this
engine, we built kind of a small set of
little baseline environments. So, there
was the hideand-seek environment. There
was Overcooked, which is kind of a
cooperative reinforcement learning
environment. The reason we chose these
in particular was they already had easy
to set up kind of CPU baselines. So we
could actually do an apples to apples uh
comparison. And what we see is the green
which you can barely see on the top of
these is those original CPU reference
implementations
um you know from like the machine
learning code bases. And basically the
performance is abysmal. All of these
tasks were majorly bottlenecked by
environment throughput. in blue. It's
you what you get if you take the ECS
ideas that I just told you about and
just run it on the CPU, more like a
traditional game engine, but scaled up
to run across multiple worlds. And then
red is you actually run it all on a 4090
on the GPU. And it's literally like over
a hundred times faster in many cases.
Um, and we actually did multiple
projects over the course of this um of
my research that basically showed you
can actually extend this to endtoend
training. It's not only simulation
throughput. We built a bunch of fast
different environments on this uh engine
over the course of about 2 years. We had
a lot of success with relatively
non-technical people like machine
learning researchers coming in uh who
only knew nothing about low-level GPU
programming and could come in build an
environment get really good performance
and just accelerate their workloads. I
kind of want to leave you with a more
general comment here which is I think
there's still a lot of work to be done
on highlevel scripting languages for the
GPU even in the era of like LLM's
writing code and stuff like this right
like I see a lot of programming language
systems are kind of trending towards
okay it's still the CUDA programming
model but it's Python syntax on top
which is great like simplifies things
easier to look at but it doesn't
actually help you with like dynamic
memory allocation on the GPU you super
irregular parallelism, all these kind of
really fundamental issues. GPUs
obviously have massive memory bandwidth
and compute even if you completely
ignore the tensor cores. I think there's
a lot of interesting workloads that you
can, you know, leverage this plentiful
super fast hardware these days and get
really good speed ups. Um, but some of
these fundamental issues just mean
there's a lot of friction if you're
trying to do this on a workload that no
one's ever done before like we were
doing. Uh, I think there's generally an
opportunity here for abstractions that
have good enough kind of default
performance. You just utilize that raw
GPU horsepower but make GPU programming
far far simpler. Kind of like a real
scripting language Pythones for the GPU.
Thank you.
>> Thank you, Brandon.
>> Yep.
[applause]
>> Okay. Um, so just to wrap up here, um, I
don't know. What do you think? Good.
Thumbs [laughter] up. Okay. Um, so yeah,
so I think these theme thematic kind of
uh uh clusters are are kind of the way I
we're going to go through this uh in the
future. The next one will be on
robotics. Um, we have a couple cool
robotics people, a lot of people in
industry. If you have folks that you
think would be a good fit, please um uh
either DM me in the Slack or or
otherwise. All right, stick around. We
have another basically hour to hang out
and meet each other. If you want to talk
to the speakers, you want to talk to
anyone and now's the time. Thank you
guys so much for coming. Right.
[applause]