Title: Groww: If Your Customers Don't Love It or Hate It, You've Already Lost
Video ID: ObBAxL2dFzw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ObBAxL2dFzw
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-06-15T12:30:28Z
Duration: PT30M11S
Views: 2477
Likes: 87
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 735

Description:
Lalit Keshre is the co-founder and CEO of Groww (W18), India's largest retail investment platform, offering stocks, mutual funds, and wealth management products to millions of customers. 

At Startup School India, Keshre sat down with YC General Partner Jon Xu to reflect on what it takes to build fintech products at the highest level. 

Chapters:

00:00 - Intro
01:32 - Growing Up Wanting to Be an IAS Officer
03:41 - The First Idea That Failed
05:36 - The Counterintuitive Bet on Transparency
07:3

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Most of the time like you would not
build what customer is [music] directly
asking but you read between the lines
okay you know what so customer did not
say okay show me all the products and
then show me all the products in
transparency and make the payments
frictionless and so on.
When I learned about grow first, you
were in the winter 18 Y cominator batch
and um you you guys sort of had a pretty
simple vision and it's one that you know
it's actually one that I resonate with
uh pretty significantly. You and I built
similar along similar visions which is
to enable everyone in India to be able
to invest right and you know fast
forward to today uh you know you've
experienced astounding growth and in
November um you went public uh you're
now a public company um what what an
amazing amazing journey um I I guess I
want to open you know by saying that
this what part of what we've learned a
lot about building product um you know
at YC predominantly a lot of it in the
US has been B2B but you've built a
generational consumer fintech company
and so I want to focus our conversation
on how to build really good consumer
fintech um but let's rewind the clock a
little bit um you know how as you were
perhaps the age of some of the folks in
the audience today what was going
through your mind like what made you
want to build a company was that always
your your vision
Yeah. No, first of all, uh John, thank
you so much. Uh we owe a lot to YC and
great to be here and such a great energy
and special hello to all the grow
customers out there. So, uh so yeah, so
coming back to this right so I think um
if I uh if I got it correctly like how
do we think how do how I started
thinking about startups and so on. So I
uh I grew up in a uh small city in in
central India and um uh my my
grandmother always wanted to wanted me
to become an is officer. Uh do you guys
know what is an IS officer right? So uh
in fact she coined a blessing. So when
in India you touch the feet of your
elders when uh every day basically we
used to touch and she coined this term
called is bhava basically become an is
right so it's like that so I think a lot
of people here will have that context
and I was in that frame of mind and I
think somewhere I got to know about uh
Apple about Steve Jobs right and that
kind of uh kind of wired my brain very
differently but somehow I did not know
about startups at all. Right? This is we
are talking about year 9798 and so on.
So startup was not the word that I knew
about but then I came to IIT Bombay and
that [clears throat] was the time of 99
or 2000 right you know that was the com
boom and everybody around me was doing a
startup right maybe somebody is printing
some t-shirts and shipping to customers
and so on and I was like yeah this like
you know being independent doing your
own stuff this this sounds fun so that's
how I think that seeds of startup kind
of uh uh I mean startups got exciting
for me.
>> When you first started was grow the
first kind of iteration of the idea or
did you were you guys sort of tinkering
and and building other things? How how
did that evolve?
>> No. So uh grow uh it's lot of tinkering
and that's something that what we have
learned like you know lot of times when
you start you have some very broad idea
in your mind but you know how do you
kind of arrive at that by the way grow
is not my first startup it is my second
startup and if you count my student
startup it will be like a third startup
right and all of them failed before even
grow the first idea that we started with
actually failed which was uh something
very different from what you see grow
today, right? And uh what we started
with was like a robo adviser, right? In
2016, robo advisor were getting very
very popular in the US, right?
Wealthfront, betterment and so on. And
uh when we uh when we uh in 2016 when we
started thinking about this problem, we
saw that you know in a country of
billion plus people
and uh even what at Flipkart where were
we are like hundreds of millions were
kind of buying online and the number of
investors was like low single digits
right 20 less than 20 million investors
and it did not make sense. So we thought
okay let's do a robo advisor for all
these customers and lot of customers
will come and so on and guess what it
did not work out uh and uh and then the
iterations started okay what is what
what actually works and what we realized
is that when customers use the product
they would always ask why this product
why not that and so on and that led us
to kind of thought process of selection
which is like what Flipkart stands for,
right? You go to Flipkart, you choose
all the things that you want, full
transparency and so on. And that's how
like the new
the the the grow in the current format
is came into being.
>> Yeah.
>> And and I think that's particularly
interesting. Um you know, obviously I
know the robot advisory products well.
Um but but it's particularly interesting
in this case because you made a decision
very early on that maybe was somewhat
counterintuitive um when people were
building consumer products or maybe even
some of the advice that you got early on
at YC which is you opened up the
platform like you showed people
everything and you you know full
transparency. Um, I'm curious, you know,
what led to kind of that that initial
insight, but also why were you leaning
into it so hard? Because I think that is
a bit counterintuitive, right? You want
to charge the customer and get get, you
know, and with the recognition that you
might not actually have revenue for some
period of time.
>> Yeah. So, um, uh, I think that's always
a question, right? How, so one thing was
very clear, Robo Advisor is not working.
Now the next thing is what will work and
then you create a hypothesis. Okay based
on the customer signal which is like
okay customers are always asking like
why this why not this and then customer
asking about a specific product like
that product is not on the app but they
are talking about it and so on. So one
hypothesis was okay let's put the put
the product that customer customers are
asking and now if you have like
thousands of customers they asking all
different products. So let's put all of
them and then we also try to connect it
with what we have learned in the past
right customers Indian customers care
about uh choice and they care about
transparency and then uh are almost
almost after an year of starting so we
started in 2016 uh which was April 20
May 2016 we'll become just completing 10
years now uh the the the grow product
which what you know was launched in May
2017 so like exactly 1 year later and
the with this hypothesis that let's open
everything with full transparency and
and very seamless payment very seamless
onboarding and we launched it we thought
okay u like if we get like 100 customers
in this month we I think we will be
happy and then we got 600 customers so
we got a very strong feeling about this
PMF what is product market fit right
that I think customers are liking
something and then you dig deeper on the
fact what they are liking and keep
doubling it down and it's like an
iterative process and the more you keep
doing it your customer acquisition cost
goes down your engagement goes up your
retention goes up and then customer love
which is like NPS score NPS stands for
net promoter score so basically you ask
customers out of 10 uh you know how much
u how what is the kind of you know how
much would you to promote it to your
friends and then what what do they say
and we got like crazy crazy customer
love like it started word of mouth
people started talking about it and so
on there was only one question mark
which is about monetization and and that
is the biggest lesson that I have kind
of learned that in a startup there will
always be uh multiple question marks and
if you can reduce it to like one
question mark I think that's like
reducing risk and especially in consumer
business and this advice is specific to
more consumer business that uh you know
if uh if there if there are no question
marks then then I think it's kind of not
uh you know it's not like a consumer bet
I feel yeah I I love the the early days
um and and this early sparks of
conviction that it gave you was a very
few set of customers um I'm curious is
what kind of what are what did that feel
like for you to just see a very small
group of customers? Were you sort of
thinking about oh we got to we got to
now get more of them. Were you thinking
about hey we got to really do the
unscalable thing and and talk to those
customers? Curious how you guys built up
from a very very small base. So one
thing is like um uh we used to talk to
customers like a lot like so we created
like lot of WhatsApp groups uh we would
go in Kora Kora was very popular at that
time in India we would go to like you
know sometimes me and my co-founders
will go to like uh movie theater before
people are watching movies right talk to
customers there so I think customer
signal if if you have like 20 20 people
on your apps it's very tough to kind of
just get insights from those 20 folks.
So you need to kind of expand your
horizon and then as soon as customer
signs up you put them into a personal
WhatsApp group so that you are
accessible and then kind of continue
chatting and then try to get some
signals from there. You know most of the
time like you would not build what
customer is directly asking but you read
between the lines. Okay, you know what?
So customer did not say okay show me all
the products and then show me all the
products in transparency and make me
like you know uh make the payments
frictionless and so on. But then you
have to kind of understand that that is
the actual elephant in the room. That's
the thing that you need to need to
remove and all.
>> Yeah. And and so how long did it take
you guys to sort of reach a moment when
you think oh this is like this is
growing this is going to work.
>> Yeah. One year. So as I said like 2016
May 2016 we started in 2016 17 May 2017
we launched the product and I think
within like 10 15 days or so we got this
aha mean aha kind of feeling yes this is
working because you could you could see
the like you know the buzz you you could
see customers talking about you and then
in so organic growth which is like when
you don't need to pay to acquire
customers right when customers are
coming themselves That is like the
product market fit and when you see them
retaining over day over day uh and then
engaging more and more talking about you
I think that then you kind of get a kind
of
>> Yeah, I think this is a really important
point like how how many how much of your
growth early on was people talking about
it with other people versus you having
to go out there and sort of spend
>> almost almost 100%.
>> Wow.
>> Right. It was like full fully on by the
way even today for example. Right. Most
of our growth is organic growth. Most of
it is word of mouth. Like all the folks
who raised uh hands like if you ask them
how did you come to know about grow most
of our customers we'd say they were kind
of uh recommended by their friend or
their you know their cousin or their and
and and some of them like you know uh
some of the older folks their kids
recommend them. Right. I think we've
seen uh earlier talking to um to Harsh
from Razer Pay, you know, there there's
in regulated industries that we work in
in sort of investments and fintech,
there's often these really, you know,
either good or really bad sort of
tailwinds, right? Or headwinds. And
sometimes you really have to be nimble
enough to catch it. And I think you guys
did. I'm curious how you navigated all
the different regulatory change over
time because you know and again like I
think folks may may not remember some of
the the stuff uh from uh from a while
ago but but I'm curious how you put
yourself in that position um to to
really leverage that.
>> So so we make we made some very uh
strong strategic choices early on and
one of them was that we will play only
in regulated zone. So basically now when
you talk about regulations there are
some areas which are not regulated at
all. There are some which are regulated
and then there's a gray zone. Gray zone
and not regulated is like 40% of the
thing maybe. But we thought okay let's
play in regulated zone that means going
and taking the license and then doing
the business right. So I think with that
mindset uh once you have that kind of so
and that's what I believe like when you
start you should have some very strong
choices because uh basically removing
the variables right and once you remove
the variables then kind of it becomes u
uh like you know the decision making and
the and the execution becomes much
easier and over time as you grew I'm
curious you know you had left this sort
of pin monetization
How did that play out?
>> So uh so by so I'll I'll tell you about
monetization right. So when we started
we started with uh mutual funds and
there we used to get some commission
actually uh which is like you know which
was not very high but then we saw
customer demand again another one
important pivot that we made on our
WhatsApp groups customers started asking
why uh so grow is a very good platform
very beautiful UX and all but why
regular mutual funds uh why not direct
mutual funds which is like zero
commission mutual funds and all these
were power customers
All these are very vocal customers. They
would talk about you and so on. But the
problem is if you have uh if you move to
zero commission then how do you make
money right? And then uh this is how we
thought I mean back uh many years back
that you know uh if we look around the
world and if you look about uh look at
all the consumer products if a product
has very low uh CAC which is like almost
organic zero CAC you can say if it has
very high retention if it has very high
engagement and very high customer love
and and other thing is if you are moving
lot of money right it's kind of very
hard to find a company that does not
make money. So we took this bet for
first four years we were like a zero
revenue company and then again there was
lot of customer demand that you know
there are mutual funds why not stocks
and that was the that unlocks the
monetization lever for us.
>> Yeah. and and as you've been
experiencing sort of a significant
amount of growth obviously um how did
you change
what how you approached how customers
really love the product cuz you know I
think what's really inspiring about this
is the core the central um thesis that
you guys had or the central execution
plan was to make a product that people
really really love not just are okay
with not just that they have to come
back to but
>> really that they must love and how has
that changed over time as you've had to
scale in the number of people.
>> So, so we so by the way we have one
commandment. So we have 10 commandments
but one of them is obsess over design.
Design is very very important for us and
uh although like um
uh you can have n any number of
frameworks to kind of uh think about
product quality and so on. But one
another thing is that uh be the power
user of your own product. So Paul Graham
says right that if you're building a
consumer product uh build for yourself.
So so at least you will have one
customer right even if you don't have
too many customers. So uh so every
release or every app that goes out like
we use it a lot. So personally I use
like my product more than 2 hours a day
right and then around 2 hours a day I
talk to customers about who are using
the product and so on. So although there
will be QAs and there will be you know
quality folks and so on but then the
real feeling comes when you are actually
user of your own product and then you're
in direct touch with the customers and
especially the power customers. It's
better to be in touch with like super
super power customers right because they
catch things they they I mean it will be
me. So one one thing that we look at
when we launch any feature or something
and I tell my team that I should start
getting uh two kinds of messages either
two kinds of messages some people should
say oh this is just awesome I love it or
they should say this is terrible I hate
it right both of these are okay if it is
don't care that is the problem right
because then it means that customers
does not care about what you launched
that's I I love that so even at the size
that you are now you are still talking
to customers. That's insane. That's
that's fantastic.
>> No, Paul Graham says right do things
that don't scale.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And and that is no
matter how big you get, I think uh that
that holds true. So as as you look at
the new wave of consumer products um
certainly people are using AI a lot
more, some to to figure out what they
should invest and sort of make
decisions. How do you view competition
or the competitive landscape as as
people are building consumer AI
products?
>> We uh I mean from grow perspective we
are always paranoid because like some of
uh younger folks sitting there they kind
of understand their generation much
better than us like we are getting
older. So so what we try to do is we try
to be in the company of younger folks as
much as possible. one of the reasons I
came here right uh and I think in
consumer world it's all about
understanding the customer and it's very
counterintuitive that the more you worry
about the competition the more kind of
you go away from the customer and the
best way to kind of deal with
competition is to like not worry about
the competition but focus on the
customer and understand their
preferences how they are changing how
trend are changing, how the tech is
changing, like how AI will impact the
customer experience, how productivity
will go and so and that is how we think
again we might be wrong but uh we are
always kind of uh paranoid about uh
about disruption.
>> Yeah. And and when we were talking
earlier um you you're personally playing
with cloud code quite a lot. I think
you're I would consider a power user. Um
has that shaped your view on how you
should run the company or build?
>> Yeah. So I I think I love playing around
and uh and when you do it yourself, when
you dirty your hands, uh then only you
can imagine like that it's something
similar to what we talked about talking
to customers, right? So when you
actually on the are on the ground and
talking to customers, you get the
feeling of how customer is thinking, how
how do how do they live, how do they
talk and so on. Likewise, if you're
talking about technology and you are far
away from it, not directly dirting your
hands, it's very difficult to imagine.
And now so when I started using uh like
you know all these coding tools and I
started coding myself I used to be a
coder before but been many years and now
again you get this uh tech where you
don't have to worry about lot of
housekeeping stuff on the in coding and
and uh and then you realize oh this is
possible this is possible and then uh
and then you kind of start promoting it
within the company and so on right so I
think uh that is uh that is a side
effect but the primary thing is you just
you just kind of get like you know
engaged. You kind of get addicted to
something some solving problems.
>> Yeah. And I'm sure um folks in this room
are looking at potentially building AI
consumer experiences in many different
fields. Um having built a really
successful one, do you think that
building AI consumer experiences has
changed? What what what do you think
needs to change or what maybe stays the
same? um for you.
>> So what stays the same is understanding
the customer need and want. Of course
you can use lot of AI tools to
understand that but you have to nail
that but then once you have figured out
what needs to be built the how part is
now so like much much easier. So earlier
in our world like you know I call
internet world as like past world our
world how how would you build a product?
You would hire maybe engineers. Let's
say three engineers. Then you will hire
a product manager who will tell
engineers what to do. And then you have
to tell okay how should be the design.
So you'll hire a designer right and then
uh if it is there's some operation
involved then you will hire operations
folks and then oh who will look at the
P&L revenue cost and so on. So let's
have a business guy and so on. So by the
like to just to build like a startup you
have like 10 15 people and so on right
but now what happens like now one person
who thought about what needs to be built
he can sit down with some free credits
and then uh you know on cl like design
do uh product management coding and
write some automation task for
operations and you're like you know the
the barrier to kind of doing something
has just gone down so significantly.
>> Yeah. And and as you look forward um
give us a sense of what's coming up or
what's next for grow.
So uh uh I think now we are a listed
company so getting bigger and bigger
trust. So what happened? So we have like
millions of customers now. We are the
largest in the country today and um and
lot of our customers are kind of
becoming wealthy right so now they have
lot more capital so what happens is that
in a customer journey so when you start
like a lot of younger folks here they
start with let's say buying a stock or
buying a mutual fund or you know buying
some one product and so on and then as
you kind of continue growing right let's
say you are now uh you come on grow when
you are let's say 25 now you are 35
right somebody came at 27 30 now they
are 40 and so on so now you are you have
lot more significant wealth wealth is
directly some you know somewhere
directly proportional to the age
secondary grow customers are especially
they they are very prudent and they are
much like I say I like to think that
they are very very smart so they grow
faster so their wealth is growing very
fast and then once you are wealthy then
your needs also kind of change right so
as a product in a product journey you
need to continue evolving your product
as the customers grow if you don't do
that then then basically then there are
like lot of smart folks building
alternative products and so on right so
I think that is the most important thing
for us right now so wealth management is
something that we are very very excited
about and then on grow side uh like um
how to kind of make it uh very very uh
smart for the the younger folks. So in
India you can start investing after 18
years uh and um and like how can we be
like you know the most u um kind of
exciting choice for them. Amazing.
Amazing. Now um I do want to shift gears
and talk about something that maybe we
haven't talked about yet which is um
co-founders. Um uh you have a pretty
unique situation. you have three other
co-founders, four of you on the team.
You know, normally it's
>> somewhat hard to get two people to align
uh perfectly in a co-founder
relationship, but you have four and
everybody that's worked with you
understands that you're always very well
aligned and and you know, you act as um
with with great urgency and consensus.
So, I'm curious, how did you navigate
that with four founders?
>> Yeah. So I think uh so number one thing
is right I think um if you are going for
a very long journey it's very important
that your value systems are aligned so
what do I mean by value system so value
system is like something written with a
pen right and then strategy
can continue changing year on year like
it's like a something written in pencil
right but uh but if value system is same
so when we started we wrote down
everything in a very very big document.
You know what do we stand for? What will
we do? What kind of compromises we can
take or what kind of choices we'll take.
So for example we the first line was we
will always be customer first customer
obsess. So now if there are no conflicts
in decision making for next 10 years 20
years I think you are good right? So
that's the so creating a very well-
aligned value system so at least their
conflicts don't happen. Second uh very
clear
uh uh clear ownership right you know so
so who is uh who is owner for what now
in a startup typically what happens is
everybody does everything like all four
of us are someday products managers
someday engineers you know operations
one of like hers used to take calls like
you know when c customer he used to do
customer support right he would do KYC
sometimes Ishan is a finance guy but he
used to code and so on right So it's
it's and they used to make content. I
nobody has created content but they will
you will see if you go to grow channels
and if you lick very old videos like 9
10 year old videos you will see very
crappy videos done by us right so you do
everything but it's about taking
decision about the ownership then you
say okay for tech he is the uh owner
owner means he will he responsible and
accountable for doing certain thing.
Lastly, if there is a anyways, if there
is a m if there's a very macro decision
and if there is a conflict, then who is
the who is the owner, right? So, if you
have like these kind of things well
aligned, I think it has it has worked
great. So so far for us and I think we
still like and okay another thing like
you you need to enjoy their company
right you should you should feel like
okay even today like you know weekends
like weekend is is the only time when we
don't get to see each other but still
like we have we are chatting
continuously on WhatsApp okay what is
happening and Monday you still feel like
going to office Monday even if sometimes
you know in founders journey there are
ups and downs and so on but if on Monday
you still are going to somebody whom you
love working with I think that's like
That's like the ideal co-founder
relationship.
[applause]
>> Yeah,
that's that's amazing advice. And and
yes, like you know, we we get this
question a lot obviously at YC about
what to look for in a co-founder. It's
always someone that you're really really
excited to work with, right? Um because
you're going to be doing it for a long
time if things work. Um so one one last
question. Um as you look at the crowd
today, some folks are I'm sure thinking
about building companies. What parting
advice would you give them? Like what
actionable advice would you give them to
get started?
>> I'll give two advice. One is don't
listen to older folks like me when you
do a startup
because the world is changing just so
fast and all the advice that is given is
from the context of you know uh what we
saw but you know I think younger folks
have much better context now and in
spite of that warning I'll again give
one advice is like do something where
you don't feel like doing work like you
know if you're like doing something time
should just kind Time should be like a
blur and it should be like you should
enjoy. Yesterday I was in a meeting and
somebody asked me a question key okay
what sacrifices have you done done in
doing while doing grow and then I
started thinking and I thought you know
that we always enjoyed building grow
right and I think I can't think about I
I of course there are low times and so
on but I mean everything was fun so I
think that's the most important thing
having fun [applause]
amazing amazing well it's been such a
pleasure thank you so Much everybody
give it up for La Kishray from Grow.
Thank you so much.
>> All right.