Title: Why Now Is The Best Time To Build In Crypto
Video ID: Pdne9xaRLUc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pdne9xaRLUc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-09-23T14:45:03Z
Duration: PT42M1S
Views: 31486
Likes: 763
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1357

Description:
We are entering the era of Fintech 3.0. Regulatory clarity, growing consumer adoption, and low-cost chains have paved the way for a golden age of building in crypto — and at YC, Base, and Coinbase we want to fund builders to seize this moment. 

In this episode of Main Function, YC's Harj Taggar and Base's Jesse Pollak sat down to discuss what kinds of companies they're most excited to see, why this is such an exciting time in crypto, and what the future could look like onchain.

More on our lat

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

We've entered the golden age of crypto
building where we finally have the tools
and now it's about entrepreneurs coming
in and saying how do we use these tools
to make 10x impact for businesses or to
build new consumer experiences that were
previously completely impossible. And
the moment is now to break through
because we've done the infrastructure
work, the tools are in place, the stable
coins, the chain, and now it's about
putting it together into that magical
experience that grows like wildfire
across the world.
I'm really excited to be joined here
today by Jesse Pollock. Jesse is the
founder of Bass, which started life as
Coinbase's blockchain, but has since
expanded into essentially the everything
app for crypto. Right. You can use Bass
to trade crypto, store your own crypto,
and build community um with other people
in crypto. Thanks so much for being
here, Jesse.
>> Thanks for having The reason Jesse's
here is that Y Cominator and Coinbase
are together putting out a joint request
for startups building in crypto. We both
believe that there's never been a more
exciting time than right now to build in
the crypto world. And we're going to
talk about some of the reasons we feel
that way and what are some of the
specific ideas and areas that we think
founders should be paying particular
attention to as they go out and build
really awesome crypto products and
services. Okay, Jesse, in our request
for startups blog post, we mentioned
this progression from this idea of
fintech 1.0 0 through to fintech 3.0. Um
maybe you could talk us through how you
think about that.
>> So I think about fintech 1.0 as the '9s
things like PayPal where consumers for
the first time got comfortable paying
for things online. I think about fintech
2.0 as this wave of the last decade of
startups that built on top of the
existing legacy financial system to
deliver friendlier consumer experiences
with money. Now I think about fintech
3.0 know as the opportunity to rewrite
it all to basically start from the
ground up and say how do we make the
financial system work better for
everyone by building it on top of the
programmable software platform that
includes money and is crypto.
>> Okay, Jesse, so AI had its sort of magic
moment with the chat GBT launch. Do you
feel like crypto is maybe going through
its own chatbt moment right now?
>> Candidly, no. And I think the reason I
say no is because if you ask a friend or
family member, I don't think they'd say,
"Oh yeah, I have had a magic moment with
crypto." I think instead they might be
fearful. They might not actually know
what crypto is doing on a day-to-day
basis. And so the thing that's powerful
about that is that that's the best time
for us to be building. And the best time
for YC entrepreneurs to be trying to
break through. And the moment is now to
break through because we've done the
infrastructure work. The tools are in
place, the stable coins, the chain, and
now it's about putting it together into
that magical experience that grows like
wildfire across the world. What exactly
has changed? What exactly has developed
that um makes it feasible to build this
technology today that wasn't possible
even like five or six years ago?
>> Yeah. So, when we're thinking about
building crypto apps, we're building on
top of a stack. And that stack has a few
different components, but the ones that
I think have really progressed in the
last few years are a few. So the first
is chains have really matured and you
can kind of think about the chain as the
programming environment where you're
building all of these applications. So
to to AWS, the chain is kind of the next
generation of that where you can imagine
you write code, it runs on this globally
distributed computer. Anyone can access
it and participate in it. And that's
this substrate where you can build. And
the problem that we had with the chains
5 years ago was you could do that, but
it was slow and expensive. And so when
you were trying to build an application
and you wanted to maybe send a stable
coin or you wanted to enable someone to
create something, you'd have them try
and send $5 and it would cost $5. It's
like that doesn't work for building a
consumer application. And the thing that
has shifted over the last few years is
that those costs have come massively
down. And whether that's with Bass or
Salana, we we we actually have this
scaling that's happening where now you
can build those applications and instead
of it costing $5 to do something, it
costs 510 of a cent or 500ths of a cent.
And that opens up the aperture of what's
possible.
>> Yeah. I think this was like the classic
criticism of crypto years ago was just
hey like okay like it sounds cool but
actually it's like it's like cheaper to
send a wire transfer than like the gas
fees on like certain chains when they're
congested 100%. And we we think about
this as the broadband moment for crypto
where when we were in dialup of the
internet you couldn't have the
applications that exist today and then
gradually we scaled the throughput
scaled the bandwidth and that led to
these new breakout experiences that
really powered the growth of the
internet over the last 20 years. One
thing I think um people hear about but
they might not always understand in
detail is like the difference between a
layer 1 blockchain and a layer two
blockchain. Do you give like the
audience a little bit of explanation
like what what exactly is the difference
and what did layer 2 blockchains unlock?
>> Yeah. So, you know, when you're thinking
about a layer 1 blockchain, uh what the
way I think about this is is really that
it's a a piece of infrastructure that
sits at the bottom of the stack, right?
And the the big ones that people talk
about and and and use and kind of are
adopting today are Bitcoin, Ethereum,
and Salana. uh and they all play
different roles. They're all
complimentary in different ways, but
they all play this role, I think, at at
the base layer of being maximally
decentralized and trying to make it so
that they are a global platform that's a
piece of infrastructure that anyone can
build on without being, you know,
fearful of being censored. Uh and that's
this really important substrate because
you need that decentralization to make
it so that no one company or one country
can kind of co-opt what's happening on
that platform. Now the thing that
Ethereum pushed forward over the last
five years was they said hey if we want
to get to the sort of scale that can
enable you know the next Google to grow
that serves billions of people there's
inevitably going to be some trade-offs
around this decentralization and the
security that it provides and then the
scalability that actually lets you drive
down those costs. And so what Ethereum
said is we're going to think about how
do we build an architecture where on top
of that layer 1 we can kind of create an
ecosystem of what they call layer 2 uh
which take that infrastructure take that
decentralization and then bootstrap off
it build on top of it to scale while
preserving decentralization as a core
characteristic and this is exactly what
Bass does. So what Bass does is you can
kind of think about it like an HOV lane.
We sit on top of Ethereum. We take
millions and millions of transactions,
we compress them, and we publish them to
Ethereum. And that means that when we're
compressing them, we can get a ton of
efficiency, which lets us drive down
costs a,000%. But because Ethereum is
sitting at the base layer, it brings
that decentralization. It brings that
censorship resistance to make it so that
Bass can stay this open global economy
that anyone can participate on. Now,
Salana, I think, has gone to the other
side of the spectrum and they said,
"Hey, we're going to do it all at the
L1." And I think that that's a really
cool and and powerful design choice as
well. And this is one of the things that
I think is really exciting about where
we are at crypto is that we're exploring
a bunch of different paths. People are
learning kind of in every single part of
the world and then we're all converging
back those learnings to build out these
products and this infrastructure that's
going to enable that next wave of
adoption. Engineers whenever they're
learning a new technology like usually
often have like their own like go-to app
that they try and build to learn it,
right? Like I mean for me it's usually
trying to build like a simple blog like
engine or something like that. If
someone wants to start building with
crypto and sort of understand like what
the power of like a a layer 2 blockchain
is or base is what's your recommended
like you know hello world or or blog
engine app that they should one app that
I think will will just be really
powerful is building a interface that
lets you interact with a swap like an
AMM or an exchange right so one of the
really powerful things that crypto
enables it enables you to seamlessly
swap between assets uh you can swap
between Ethereum and a stable coin or
between multiple stable coins and the
way that happens is through uh what's
called an AMM or an automated market
maker, which is kind of an exchange
that's written in smart contracts. And
those things are really simple, right?
What previously was, you know, hundreds
of thousands or millions of lines of
code has been distilled down to a simple
formula and then written into hundreds
of lines of code that sits in a smart
contract that lives on base. And I think
one of the really kind of easy and cool
hello worlds is building a UI that
serves as a entry point into one of
those exchanges because then you can
see, oh, I can connect my wallet. I can
build this, you know, little interface
that lets me take an asset that's in my
wallet and swap it to another asset in
my wallet and I don't need to sign up
for an API key. I don't need to get
permission from anyone. I all I need is
to write a little interface. And so I
think that that's a a really good hello
world. Another thing that I think is a
really good hello world is, you know,
actually going in there and building
your own AML, right? It is literally
just a function that's kind of defining
the relationships between how one asset
swaps to another. And it's, you know, on
the order of hundreds or thousands of
lines of code and so that's a little bit
more complex like you're getting into
the smart contracts, you're figuring out
like how do I actually make these kind
of swaps work? But I think that that
learning experience of saying, "Hey, you
know, if you look at the New York Stock
Exchange or any traditional exchange,
this is huge amounts of infrastructure,
huge amounts of overhead, and now that
can be distilled into hundreds of lines
of code." I think that that's kind of an
aha moment for a lot of people.
>> On the regulatory front, because that
seems like it's a big catalyst um for
this particular moment in time for
crypto. Um there's lots of news around
like the Genius Act is going through and
you got various um bills trying to
regulate um the crypto market. In what
ways have you seen regulation hold
people back from being able to like
really innovate with crypto over the
past few years and how is that changing
now?
>> Yeah. Well, I think this is something
that really impacted startups of the the
type that are coming into YC and trying
to be successful, you know, and I've
been working with builders over the
last, you know, five, six years to try
and figure out how can I help them be
successful building on chain. And the
thing that has been really consistent is
that so many early stage builders and
latest stage builders ended up spending
like equivalent or more money on lawyers
than they were on engineers.
>> And you know if you're coming into YC
and you're interviewing and you're like
hey we're going to be spending more
money on lawyers than engineers. Like my
gut is that the YC partners are going to
say okay like maybe you're not building
in the right business here. Like really
are you as a threeperson team going to
be able to be successful?
>> Yeah. This was actually really what
happened for us a lot of the those
application cycles in 2021 2022 like we
will look at it and feel like okay like
what's the domain expertise you need to
build something really good here and it
was actually like you if you're building
a hardware company you're building
robots you kind of need to have like
some experience building hardware and
robots and we felt that with crypto it
was actually like you needed to really
be paying attention to the regulatory
aspects of it and understand securities
law and I know if you're putting like
real estate on the blockchain you need
to actually understand what all of the
legal implications of that were and a
lot of the time we've interviews and we
just feel like the teams had no
understanding of it at all and it was
unclear how you would ever go to market
or build.
>> Yeah. And the thing I would say is I
don't even think that that's an
indictment of those teams. That's an
indictment of the fact that the
regulation has been massively unclear.
Yeah. Right. Like there literally hasn't
been rules of the road for entrepreneurs
to build on this new platform and be
successful. And so the impact that we've
seen of that is that it's basically just
chilled out people from being
successful. Right? If you have to spend
more money on lawyers than engineers,
how can you apply the YC principles of,
you know, being customer centric and,
you know, doing things that don't scale,
like literally you're being forced to do
things that much bigger companies should
be doing instead. And so, I think that
that has been this massive kind of
constraint on innovation for the last
decade. And I think the thing that's
just started to shift, we're still in
the early days, but it's really
happening is that now that we're
starting to have regulatory clarity,
whether that's with stable coins from
the Genius Act or potentially with, you
know, all of crypto tokens with the
Clarity Act, what's that leading to is
it's leading to those entrepreneurs now
having more certainty. They, oh, these
are the rules of the road. And
therefore, that idea that previously I
would have to go get a ton of legal
opinions on, can I do this? They can now
just go and do it. And that is such a
lowering of the barrier to entry for the
entrepreneur in the United States or
outside of the United States that I
think it's going to lead to a ton more
innovation. And going back to to kind of
the scaling things that we talked about,
you know, and kind of what's enabling
this next chapter, we talked about
scaling the chain. I think that that's a
huge part of it. I think the regulatory
unlock is another huge part of it that's
changed. I think stable coins maturing
is a third huge part of it that's
changed where you now have programmable
money that's you know the money that
we're all used to that we can all use
and then I also think that we've kind of
had a bunch of breakthroughs on wallets
and simplifying wallets and making it so
that they can be integrated into the
user experience in a way that's not
scary and so those you know four things
chain scaling regulatory clarity stable
coins emerging as a really powerful tool
and then wallets getting simpler and
simpler I think have matured to the
point where we've entered the golden age
of crypto building, the golden age of
onchain building where we finally have
the tools and now it's about
entrepreneurs coming in and saying how
do we use these tools to make 10x impact
for businesses or to build new consumer
experiences that were previously
completely impossible because we
couldn't program things on a global
stage. We couldn't move money at the
speed of light but are now possible and
how do we actually use that to create
this value? I want to talk about stable
coins more. So like you mentioned those
like that that so far it seems to be
outside of trading like the killer use
case um specifically within the Y
cominator community in our portfolio of
companies. I was looking at this some of
our fastest growing companies at the
moment the AI companies definitely get
lots of attention but we have like
dollar app in Latam, Aspora in India.
These are essentially neo bank services
that are really built around stable
coins and their growth rates are
incredible. I'm sure you guys have seen
this at Coinbase too. Let's start with
this. Why have stable coins taken off um
in this way? And actually, I'm curious
as someone who's been around crypto for
so long, has it surprised you? Like, did
you think it was going to be stable
coins all along? I don't think we
thought it was going to be stable coins
all along. I mean, I I remember when we
launched USDC, I was in the war room at
Coinbase. We launched it in
collaboration with Circle. I think at
the time we felt like we got to go do
this, but we're not really sure what's
going to come from it. And candidly,
like the first two to three years of
USDC, we had launched it, but it didn't
grow that much. like it took us a while
to get to a billion of issuance. It took
us a while for people to be like, "Oh,
this is a meaningful thing." Now, you
know, there's almost $200 billion of
stable coins in the market. So, I think
it's kind of it feels obvious, but even
in 2017, 2018, 2019 when we were just
getting started here, I I don't think it
felt obvious at all. Now I think the
thing that stable coins unlock which has
been the primary thing that's driving
this is they enable programmable money
to come into the existing financial
system and give in particular
programmable dollars to anyone in the
world. And this is a big unlock because
previously prior to stable coins if you
were an entrepreneur outside of the US
or if you were just an everyday person
outside the US you actually didn't
really have a way to access dollars. You
couldn't open a dollar account. You
couldn't get a dollar savings account.
You couldn't get a dollar business
account. And that meant that um whether
you were trying to transact with other
businesses or consumers in dollars or
you were just in a you know economic
local environment where your currency
wasn't really working for you maybe
because it's massively inflating or
maybe because it it is unstable in other
ways. You were cut out of accessing the
dollar system that actually did work
pretty well. And so I think the first
big unlock that stable coins has done is
basically said okay now everyone in the
world can access dollars and not just
can they access it they can build with
dollars and they can build with dollars
on this new programmable platform where
those dollars can move instantly
globally and basically for free. And so
that for me I think was the first thing.
Now there's a ton of other things that
stable coins are going to unlock but
that alone was a 10x 100x improvement
for hundreds of millions of people
around the world. And I think it's the
thing that's led to this growth of from
zero to almost 200 billion dollars of
stable coins in the world today.
>> Yeah. And it seems I mean that maps up
pretty well with what we're seeing which
is where like in particular these sort
of like the neo banks the dollar app and
Apora like the killer use case really
seems to be remittances and sending
money internationally like instantly
cheaply. What are some of the other like
applications of stable coins that you're
personally really excited about or do
you think builders might not recognize
or um as great opportunities? Well, this
is one where I I think that there's an
opportunity that runs counter to the
narrative because there's a ton of
excitement about dollar stable coins and
I'm really excited about dollar stable
coins. I think there's so much more that
we can do with them. But at the same
time, you know, as I've talked to
builders and as I've talked to to
regulators and businesses in in
countries around the world, so many of
them have excitement about dollar stable
coins because they solve an immediate
need. You know, if I have inflation in
my country, I can now save in dollars
and that that helps me, you know, have a
more stable savings account or more
stable business account. At the same
time, when I talk to those folks, I
think that there is an intuitive feeling
of, "Oh man, we have our own local
economy and we don't want that economy
to be dollarized, right?" Like if I'm in
Kenya or Brazil or Nigeria or you know
Indonesia, we have excitement about
building our own local economy on the
Brazilian Royale or the Nigerian Naira
or you know that you know kind of
excitement about investing in one's
local economy and then the the I think
kind of intuitive feeling of there's
this tension between getting the value
from dollars but also not having dollars
dominate in a way where crowd out the
local economy. I think to me that is one
of the most exciting opportunities to
kind of lean into. And what we're seeing
start to be that opportunity is that now
alongside the dollar stable coins, you
actually have entrepreneurs in all those
countries who are creating stable coins
for their currencies. So you have a
Brazilian rail currency, you have a a
Nigerian naira currency, you have
Indonesia rupee currency, you have a
stable coin for every country. And what
that means is that you can take all of
the innovation that has kind of been
built on top of dollar stable coins,
whether that's, you know, uh, easy to
send or it's easy to borrow and lend
with, uh, or it's easy to swap to other
things and apply them to your local
economy. So now you want to do business
loans in your local currency. Great.
Take a bunch of the stuff that's already
been built and apply it to your local
stable coin. and that opportunity to
take this technology and make it so that
it's actually an empowering technology
for local economies. I think that that
is one of the most exciting things. And
it's still early. It's still small, but
for builders like the builders coming
through YC who are coming from all
around the world and who are excited
about taking on those hard challenges, I
think that that's going to be a place
where there's massive amount of
opportunity for impact. So for those
founders and those builders in those
countries, it maybe isn't clear in each
of those markets which the winning
stable coin like in the US it's USDC but
like in those markets it might not be
clear. So do you think those builders
should go out and try and like should
they start their own sort of circle
Coinbase consortium and and launch a
stable coin or should they try and pick
which they think is the winner and build
around that?
>> I think I think both, right? And you're
going to have entrepreneurs that want to
pursue different things, right? If
you're starting a local stable coin, you
know, it's going to look like working
with the government and working with
banks and figuring out how do you do
custody in a secure way. I think that
that's a massive opportunity. And we
actually just put out a request for
builders for base where it's like we
want to talk to entrepreneurs in every
single country in the world who are
doing that work because it's so so
important and we want to support them
and help them be successful. Now, at the
same time, a lot of builders might not
be excited about that, right? They want
to be building product instead of
building the relationships with banks
and figuring out how to custody. I think
one of the really really powerful things
about um crypto is that it's built in
such a way where it's composable, right?
And so if you build around one stable
coin and then another stable coin starts
growing really quickly and uh you think
it's actually going to be better for
your business, it's not going to be that
hard or that expensive to say, "Okay,
great. Now let's support that other one,
too." Because again, they're all running
in the same computer and they're all
programmable. And so you really can
build systems in such a way where both
can plug in. And so I'd say if I'm an
entrepreneur who maybe isn't interested
in starting the local stable coin, but
does want to be building solutions that
use local stable coins, I'd think about,
you know, how do I build my solution in
a way that works with all of these
stable coins? How do I make it so it
works with dollar stable coins, too?
Because I think that kind of
flexibility, that's actually what
consumers and businesses are going to
want. they're going to want the ability
to have my, you know, payments app and
be able to save in dollars, save in my
local stable coins, swap between them,
earn interest on both, borrow with both
of them. And I think really for the
first time that's actually possible with
crypto because it's all running on this
programmable platform. YC's Next Batch
is now taking applications. Got a
startup in you? Apply at y
combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video. How about for like US
centric builders? Um how should they
think about the opportunities to build
in stable coins right now? And maybe I
um bit of a segue here, but I know that
Coinbase just launched like a commerce
payments protocol with Shopify. How does
that tie into this? And how does that
create opportunities for um founders in
the space? Now that we have the fast
chains, we have the the scaled uh stable
coins, we have the mature regulatory
environment, we have the easytouse
wallets, I think the opportunity is
basically looking at every single part
of the the financial system that exists
today and figuring out how do we turn
that from legacy systems that in many
cases are 50 to 100 years old into
programmable smart contracts that live
on chain. And you can look at every part
of the world and be like, "Wow, look at
this system that is written in cobalt
that, you know, has millions of lines of
code that has all of this cruff that has
massive fees. Can we write that into a
smart contract that's 500 lines of
code?" And the answer is yes. It's
literally yes. And this is exactly what
we saw with Shopify. You're talking
about, you know, this commerce payments
pro protocol that we built that lets um
any Shopify store in the world accept
USDC on base from anyone else in the
world. And the thing that we did to
unlock that was we embedded with the
Shopify team. And you know, shout out to
Toby and Shopify. They came to us and
said, "We think the moment is now for us
to look at all of our existing
acceptance systems and figure out how
can they be rewritten in smart
contracts." And what we did over a
nine-month period was exactly that. We
went into their systems which are
literally millions of lines of code
where they're doing things like escrow
uh they're taking taxes uh they're doing
you know fees tariffs uh they're doing
refunds chargebacks like all of this
business logic around accepting money
for a good which you know for most of us
I think is kind of behind the scenes but
for a business like Shopify like it is
the scene it's the thing that you're
doing and they said okay how do we now
translate that into a smart contract and
the crazy thing is that after nine
months of work we translated into smart
contract and that smart contract ended
up being about a thousand lines of code.
>> Huh. Interesting.
>> So literally like stuff that previously
was a million plus lines of code is now
a thousand lines of code because it's a
thousand lines of code running in this
open platform computer where you have
money built in. You have stable coins
built in. You have the ability to do
escrow. you have the ability to do fee
splits and value splits between all
these different parties all natively in
the code and I think you know still ton
more work to do there but the the mental
model that entrepreneurs should be
taking is there are opportunities like
that in every single part of the United
States and global economy
>> yeah I think like one of the lazy
criticisms of crypto has always been
it's like oh it was supposed to be a
decentralized system but then you need
chargebacks you need escrow and now
we're just like reinventing the same
thing over and over again there's no
innovation here. It's clear why this is
better for Shopify and Coinbase. So,
this is like way more efficient. It's
going to be faster, cheaper, and a
better user experience. How about again
for the founders though? How do they
build around this protocol? And how do
they what are the opportunities for them
to capture value for themselves?
>> I think it's a really interesting and
and important clarification, you know,
because I do I do think sometimes people
look at this and they say, oh, like is
this giving up the core values of
crypto? And and from where I sit, the
place where decentralization is really
really important is at the very bottom
of the stack, right? you need
decentralization at the Ethereum layer
at base because what that enables is it
enables this global platform that
everyone can come and participate on.
Now on top of that platform the thing
that we're seeing is that if you just
myopically say okay now not only does
the base layer need to be decentralized
every single thing that goes up and down
the stack also needs to to be
decentralized. You're basically throwing
out what we've learned about building
businesses for the last hundred years
and saying oh no no no like that stuff's
wrong. And actually like it's right like
Shopify is the world expert at commerce.
And so we should probably listen to them
and say, "Hey, what if instead of saying
they don't know what they're talking
about, we say no, they know exactly what
they're talking about and they can
figure out how to use these new tools
and that decentralized platform at the
bottom to build their existing systems
in a way that is more efficient." And so
I think the opportunity for
entrepreneurs is basically saying, okay,
let's say I'm a business that needs to
to do acceptance or I'm building a
product that needs to do, you know,
merchant acceptance. How can I take a
tool like the the the commerce payments
protocol and use it to build an
acceptance product that is 10 times
cheaper and 10 times faster than other
acceptance products on the market. And
there's going to be so many
opportunities like that, whether it's
with acceptance and merchants or it's
with lending and borrowing or it's with
other forms of credit or it's with
trading. That mental model of we now
have this new platform. How can I
translate it, lower the cost, lower the
barrier to entry, deliver that 10x
better product and use that to disrupt
incumbents so that I can go and get more
market share. I can build a more
important business that actually changes
the world in a bigger way. I think
that's the mental model that
entrepreneur
>> and who are some of the um who are some
of those incumbents that founders should
have in mind when they're thinking about
disrupting can you say that
>> you know I'm not going to name names but
I think if you look at the I think if
you look at the way the the the internet
works today the internet originally
didn't have money programmed into it
right and so what ended up happening is
you basically had to figure out okay how
do we add money to the internet and what
that led to is you have a small number
of intermediaries who played the role of
bringing money into the It theoretically
was supposed to be a native protocol,
right? But like
>> literally it was supposed to, right? We
were supposed to have payments in it,
but then we decided not to. And so that
led to this point where you have these
intermediaries, whether they're payments
networks or social networks that have
basically said, we're going to play the
role of bringing together these
two-sided markets. You know, the the
payments networks are buyers and
sellers. The social networks are
creators and consumers. We're going to
sit in the middle and we're going to
mediate the transactions happening
between them. We're going to enable the
buyer to to buy something from the
seller. We're going to enable the
consumer to interact with the content
from the creator and we're going to take
a fee for that because when we build
that network effect, we're going to
actually have proprietary access to it.
It is our network effect and then we're
going to monetize it. And I think the
thing that's shifting with crypto is
those network effects are being turned
inside out where it's when when we're
onboarding people on chain and we're
bringing them into these new systems,
they're actually entering an open
network where when you join the network,
anyone can now start to participate. And
so if you have stable coins, you can do
a payment to someone else with stable
coins. And that's not mediated by one
payment processor that's, you know,
checking out every debit card and credit
card that's going through the system.
it's sitting on an open platform that
anyone can build into and anyone can
participate in. And so I think the the
the thing to look for when you're an
entrepreneur right now is where are
those really scaled network effects that
have been built up around intermediaries
who are intermediating transactions
whether those are social transactions or
commerce transactions or financial
transactions, borrow, lending, trading
and then how do we use this new open
platform to mediate those same
transactions in a way that's 10 times
cheaper, 10 times faster and 10 times
more globally available. And I think
that globally available one is a really
really really important one because it's
going to be the thing that's going to
enable everyone regardless of where they
born, regardless of where they live to
participate in these new value creation
systems and I think it's going to lead
to the world becoming a lot better place
>> and actually like sparks some uh some
memory for me of like I think so like
the first cycle of crypto applications
we saw years ago a characteristic that
we also often felt of some of the teams
I probably the weaker teams is that it
felt like they were putting like the
crypto solution in ahead of the problem
and they sort of like hammer searching
for nail. The thing that's been really
exciting about some of the stable coin
companies that have broken out I think
is that it's not even clear that their
users know that like they're using
stable coins per se like it's just a
technology from their perspective is oh
now I can like send money back from
India to the US like instantly it's way
cheaper um the user experience is great
and I think our advice to founders would
definitely be look for those sorts of
opportunities where you understand the
technology deeply enough you've you've
read the commerce um payment protocol
paper you you know how this all works
but you're looking for like actual
problems And the users might not even be
aware that you're using crypto to solve
their problems. But I think that's
usually a better approach to finding
good startup ideas.
>> 100%. It's all about how do we solve
real problems for everyday people for
everyday businesses.
>> So if we zoom out like you could stable
coins are essentially just what like one
type of tokenization. Maybe could you
explain what does that actually mean to
sort of tokenize something and then are
there other types of assets you're
excited about seeing be tokenized and
brought on chain? If you think about the
the existing financial system, um you
you can kind of think about all of these
large classes of assets, right? Stable
coins map to uh you know fiat
currencies, right? You have the dollar,
you have the euro, you have the yen, you
have you know hundreds of fiat
currencies from all the countries around
the world. That's obviously not the only
class of assets. You also have stock,
you have bonds, you have real estate, uh
you have all of these complex debt
structures and all of that today um sits
inside of the existing financial system,
right? Maybe uh it's the the the stock
certificates that sit with the DC. Uh
you know, it's it's this whole world of
records that map to financial assets
that sit inside legacy systems. And so
when we're talking about tokenization, I
think one of the big swasts of
tokenization, I think the one that most
people think about when they're thinking
about tokenization is basically how do
we take all of those asset classes and
move them out of the legacy books and
records and into this new programmable
environment? How do we move them from uh
the the you know records that maybe
started 100 years ago when we had the
first stock certificates into smart
contracts that live on base? And that is
a massive opportunity, right? Like
again, there's trillions and trillions
of dollars of assets in the world. And I
think we can all imagine that if you
take all the assets that exist and then
you put them into a platform where they
can be programmable, they can move
instantly, they can move basically for
free, uh they can uh be accessible to
anyone globally in the world. That's
going to create a lot of value for the
world. And so we're really excited about
seeing that. And that's what we're
seeing every day on base right now. It's
like people are bringing stock, they're
bringing bonds, they're bringing more
stable coins like I talked about
earlier. uh they're actually you know
bringing collateralized debt positions
like every single thing you can imagine
it's being moved from the legacy system
into the new system. The other class of
tokenization that we're also really
excited about which I think is a more
emergent thing is um whole new asset
classes that don't exist in the
traditional world.
>> Yeah. What are some examples?
>> And and this is I I think a thing that
you know you have to squint a little bit
to see it and it can run counter to I
think the the advice you were maybe just
giving to entrepreneurs, right? I think
one way of thinking about crypto is
okay, how do we look for existing
systems that are broken and how do we
use this new technology to make them
more efficient and deliver value to
customers with that. I think the other
way of thinking about crypto that we
really believe in and we do not think
should be skewed is saying okay we have
a new platform what if there's stuff
that like wasn't possible before or that
we couldn't believe before that is now
newly possible in this new platform and
what if that is actually 10 times bigger
100 times bigger or a thousand times
bigger if we were in the early 2000s or
the mid 1990s I think you know if if we
said okay the big thing about the
internet is we're going to bring all of
the books on chain and we're going to
bring all the news things on chain. I
think a lot of people might have said,
"Yeah, that's the big thing." And they
all would have been wrong because really
what the big thing was about the
internet was all of the content that
like none of us knew even existed from
billions of people all around the world
that's now enabled by the social global
internet that exists today.
>> Are there directions like this that
you're excited about? Things that just
don't exist that can only exist in sort
of like a onchain world where there's
programmable money. Yeah, I'd say the
the biggest one that I'm excited about
and this is something that's a big part
of what's happening on Bass right now
and and what's happening with the Bass
app is the idea that um we have a whole
creator economy that's built right now,
but currently the the creators and the
content that they create aren't actually
valued as assets. And that is because
they are uh the the content and the
creators again they're kept in these
locked up systems where those network
effects are controlled by a small number
of corporations and those corporations
monetize it. they monetize that content
to the the tune of literally hundreds of
billions of dollars a year, but the
creators don't actually have access to
that value. And so I think one of the
biggest asset classes that we believe is
about to emerge is content and creators
and creator capital markets where for
the first time you're going to have
creators that start to say, "Hey, I want
to use this new platform to raise
capital for myself. I want to bring my
content into this new free market and
then I want to have that content be
valued by the market. And so for
instance on the base app, it's a new
social product where every single post
that you make is a coin and every single
creator is a coin. And what that means
is that the the the the content and the
creators are getting valued in real
time. So when I post, I get tons of
people trading that asset just like
they're liking and commenting on Twitter
or other social platforms. And what
emerges from that is a a value for my
content which I can then uh monetize by
borrowing against, lending against. I
have a whole, you know, suite of content
that now is literally valued in the free
market. And then b there's all of these
offflows of value from every single
trade that get routed back to me. And so
what we're seeing happen is that when
creators bring their content into the
free market, they make more money
because now that content isn't being
taken by someone else, it's being owned
by them and they're actually benefiting
from it. And so for us, when we look at
the internet today, we can see that
that's what powers it, but we can also
see that's not an asset that's realized
for creators. And so we're so excited
about bringing that into this new
platform and actually making it
something that people can access.
>> How about let's just talk about like the
founders and the teams themselves. I
mean, Coinbase is unusual in that um
you're both a product company and you
also like invest in these teams
yourselves. Like when you're looking for
teams to invest in in the crypto world,
what are some of the attributes you look
for? like how do you tell that this is
like um the type of team that can build
something great in the crypto world and
maybe what are some of the success
stories so far?
>> Yeah. And I'll start with one thing that
we don't look for which is that we do
not look for people in a certain part of
the world.
>> Okay.
>> Because one of the superpowers of crypto
is that everyone's on a level playing
field. Whether you're in the United
States or you're in Nigeria or you're in
Argentina or you're in Indonesia,
everyone has a fair shot because they
have access to the same economic
platform and they can participate in
this global economy that we're building.
So that's one thing we're not looking
for. everyone can build on base,
everyone can participate in this next
wave of innovation. Now, in terms of
things that we are looking for, I think
that they honestly mirror YC a lot,
right? We're looking for uh a small team
of people who are builders, right? It's
like, do they actually have the skills?
We we never almost never see it work
where it's like I have an idea and I'm
going to farm it out to someone. You
have to be a builder. And whether
that's, you know, writing the code or
building the community or creating
content, doing the work and being in it
every single day is the only way to
build a successful product, successful
startup. That's the first thing. I think
the second thing that we're looking for
is we look for people who understand the
technology, right? If you want to be
someone who breaks through and and
actually delivers that 10x improvement,
you need to see the connection between
how can I solve this problem with that
te this technology. And that requires
understanding the technology. And so
doing that work to write your first
smart contract or build the interface to
a DEX that is the learning that then
builds the muscle for having those
intuitions around okay here's the
opportunity that's going to enable me to
kind of break out in the next way. So
that's the second thing that we look for
and then we we have this phrase which is
that we look for people who are based
and what that means to us is it means
that they work hard. It means they do
the right thing. It means they uh push
boundaries with creativity. They're
willing to take risks. It means that
they put the team over the individual.
Like they're they want to go and do
something that's bigger than just
themselves. And that value set is again
and again the the sort of people that we
love building with because they're the
entrepreneurs who show up day in day out
when it's hard, when it's easy, uh when
people don't believe in them to try and
make the world a better place.
>> Another area that's obviously capturing
lots of attention right now is AI. And
we're just seeing all these magical AI
companies building great products and
growing really quickly. It seems like AI
and crypto should be a very natural fit
with each other. Um, so maybe can you
talk a bit about that? Like where do you
see the opportunities for those two
technologies intersecting and and maybe
how does Coinbase think about the
opportunities for founders there? I
think it is a special thing that crypto
and AI are growing up together right now
because when you look at the problems uh
that AI has, I think you can solve a
bunch of them with crypto and and two of
them stand out to me. One is in a world
where AI proliferates um it's going to
be really hard to know like what's real
and crypto provides a level of hardness
and verification that I think can
connect to AI in a way that solve that
problem. It's like if you have millions
and millions and millions of things
being created being able to use crypto
rails to authenticate them and verify
them and say, "Hey, these things are
connected. These things are real." I
think that that's going to be a huge
unlock. The other one which I I think
I'm maybe more excited about is that a
AI is about programmability. It's about
enabling agents that at their core are
computers and writing software and
reading software and consuming software.
And what better substrate for those
agents to be operating on than money as
software, right? If I'm an agent and I
want to be sending money to other agents
or transacting, I want to be using
something that's natively built for me.
And I think that's exactly what we're
seeing happen with crypto right now is
that crypto is plugging in as a platform
that enables agents to transact
natively. So instead of going and trying
to operate in a browser over the legacy
rails, they just called a smart contract
and it does the thing that they want to
do. And so I think that that kind of
substrate of crypto serving as a
platform both for verifiability and
money that agents can then transact on
top of as their native substrate, it's
going to be hugely powerful.
>> Yeah, it totally maps on to what we've
seen in AI too. It's like that people
you sort of anthropomorphicize that
agents a little bit and it's like they
actually to do the work they need like
their phone number they need an email
inbox like they need a browser that they
can like actually use and so yeah it
makes total sense that they would have
their own wallet and that would be a
crypto wallet.
>> I have a question for you which is that
you know you've talked to a lot of
companies I assume through the interview
process that are doing crypto. What are
the the crypto companies that have stood
out to you as like exciting for YC and
what are their characteristics? Yeah,
you know, I I mentioned a couple of them
like DollarP um Aspora um sort of both
in sort of like the I say like Neo Bank
built around building a new experience
for their users with stable coins in
particular but just more generally a
better experience for for users in those
countries. I think a really interesting
one that I I've personally been involved
with army side is called courtyard and
they started out as a sort of
collectibles marketplace and what they I
think they were doing was um interesting
innovative is that they wanted to like
actually verify that the collectibles
were like um authentic and so they would
they would actually manually verify that
like you the the baseball card was what
it said it was or the collectible toy
was what it said it was and then put
that onto sort of like the the
blockchain as just like you know
immutable proof of the authenticity and
then sell that on the marketplace.
Another question I have is you've now
seen the arc of um lots of startups
being built. What would you say to
cryptobuilders who are like we've been
here for 15 years, it hasn't happened
yet. Like we're tired.
>> Yeah,
very good question. I This time is
different. But like it really does
actually feel like that.
>> YC's philosophy first and foremost is
just like fund the best teams and fund
the best founders. And there's a
particular DNA of founder that we want.
It's like Brian, it's like you. It's
like very like technical like um
technically minded um engineers who are
willing to go out and learn about
customer pain and business to the extent
they need. Uh and I think the reason I'm
most excited about stuff now is just I
think there was a period of time where
crypto wasn't attracting all of those
people. Um and it was a mixed some of
them have always been there but there
was also just a lot of people who were
there for like the speculation and
basically trying to make money really
quickly. And I think now is the first
time I feel really that the stars are
aligning where like you're seeing like
really strong technical teams who want
to solve like real problems actually
sort of paying attention to the space
and I think it is largely what you said
actually like the chilling effect around
the regulatory environment on this stuff
I think just scared away a lot of those
people and now it feels safer to build
in the space and so we're just like I
feel each batch we're seeing like um
people coming in. I think stable coins
are sort of like the obvious entry point
into it because it's like you know the
most clearly regulated space and the
most clearly sort of um understandable
use case but I think you extrapolate
that line out forward like 12 18 months
from now we'll just be seeing more high
quality teams especially with that sort
of like YC and Coinbase DNA like working
on crypto ideas.
>> Yeah, the builders are getting better
and better. It's awesome.
>> Maybe do you have some closing advice
for some of like the technical founders
out there who want to build in the
space? Like what's one one bit of key
advice you could leave them with? Yeah,
my advice would be come up with a thesis
of what you think is broken and then
show up every single day trying to
either prove or disprove that thesis.
That work of showing up, talking to
customers and doing it is going to be
the thing that leads to the successful
startup. So, let me ask a final
question. Is YC open for business for
crypto?
>> Yes, 100%. I mean, like we absolutely
want to fund all the great teams that
are working on crypto.
>> I love it. So excited. So excited to be
here. so excited to be doing this and so
excited to hopefully see hundreds and
hundreds of incredible startups being
built on crypto backed by YC in the
coming years.
>> So, if you're um if you're a builder, if
you're an engineer and you're interested
in building a crypto startup, YC would
love to see applications from you and
we'd love to work together with Coinbase
on helping you succeed. Thanks so much
for being here, Jesse. Thanks for having
me.
[Music]