Title: How to Be a Great Founder with Reid Hoffman (How to Start a Startup 2014: Lecture 13)
Video ID: pkAum45ubWc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkAum45ubWc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-04-17T20:05:07Z
Duration: PT49M58S
Views: 129150
Likes: 2531
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Startup, Lecture, Stanford, Class, Sam Altman, How to start a startup, startup school, reid hoffman, linkedin, founder, advice, how to be a great founder, how to be a founder
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1403

Description:
Lecture Transcript: http://www.genius.com/Reid-hoffman-lecture-13-how-to-be-a-great-founder-annotated

So you've learned how to get started, how to raise money, how to build products, and how to grow. Reid Hoffman, founder of LinkedIn and Partner at Greylock Ventures, addresses many of the questions and confusions that might be cropping up - How to be a Great Founder.

See the slides and readings at http://www.startupclass.samaltman.com/courses/lec13

Discuss this lecture: http://www.startupclas

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Uh so when I looked through the syllabus
of this class and thought about what uh
I could possibly add that would be
useful in addition to the various
skills. One of the things that I've been
thinking about has been how do you think
about yourself as a founder? How do you
think about what the skill set is and
what are the things that you should be
thinking about in terms of am I ready?
How do I get ready? Is it the right
thing for me? These sorts of things. So
let's start with the perception of what
a great founder is. And classically, you
know, this tends to be Steve Jobs, Bill
Gates, Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff
Bezos. And it's an image of founder as
superwoman or Superman, right? Who is
has this like panopticon of skills. And
I can use the word ponopticon because
I'm here at Stanford.
Um, but uh the it's it's things like I
know how to do product market fit. I'm
great at product. I'm great at strategy.
I'm great at management. I can fund
raise, right? I can do all of these
different skills. And part of what
you're looking for in a great founder in
the kind of theory of the founder as
superperson is I'm looking for someone
who is awesome at all these things. They
they are they are well-rounded. They are
diverse. They can bat on all skills.
And uh you know part of how I found this
kind of emphasized in my own the
beginning of my own entrepreneurial
journey is I remember reading an article
that said you know Bill Gates who is
smarter than Einstein right and you're
like well look Bill Gates is really
smart and is very accomplished but I'm
not quite sure smarter than Einstein is
actually a phrase that even Bill would
want to be actually next to. Uh and it's
partially because I think it's this
image of founder as superperson which is
that a great founder is someone who can
do anything you know jump over tall tall
buildings in a single bound you know all
of these sorts of things and the reality
right is a founder is someone who deals
with a ton of different headaches and um
and no one is universally superpowered.
Uh generally speaking you hope to have a
couple of superpowers. some things that
are unique edge to you, some things that
are unique to the problem that you're
trying to solve, uh some things that uh
may help you give an edge because
actually competitive differentiation and
competitive edge is super important. But
uh but it's not uh it's not actually in
fact a a function of of genius. And
matter of fact, uh frequently it's very
hard to tell the difference between
madness and genius because uh usually
it's the results that play out. And
sometimes when you're dealing with
uncertain environments, you may even be
genius and later be thought to be a a
mad person or you may be a mad person
and you turn out to be lucky and you're
later thought to be a genius. So it's
it's actually kind of a challenging set
of like how do you think about you know
these sets you know what is the whole
set of skills and when us mere mortals
you know come into this kind of battle
what is the way right way to think about
it and so um you know when I thought
about this question of how is one a
great founder you know part of what you
get to is oh and actually this is
probably the slide that for um people on
uh this this may have been a suboptimal
choice for people on video, but it's
like these are all skills that are super
important, right? These are all things
that you say, well, okay, this is this
is really really important to do and you
must in fact actually do this well. And
it begins to look like a superhuman
task. And so what I did is I decided to
take a a subset of these uh and focus on
some of the the interesting things to
think about what is it that actually
makes a great founder because it's
actually not that you score 10 out of 10
on all these you know you're the the
entrepreneurial Olympiad right you you
are actually the best at all of these
things. So let's start with team. So one
way to kind of I think talk about
exploding the kind of the myth of the
super founder is that actually in fact
usually it's best to have two or three
people on a team rather than a solar
founder. It's not that say solar
founders don't actually play out and
they can uh successfully but most often
two or three people is actually in fact
a much better when I look at these
things as an investor and I say you know
uh what is a good composition of a
project and a and founders that are
likely to succeed it's usually there's
two or three of them and the reasons are
because for example we've already talked
about the fact that there's this very
broad set of skills there's this whole
set of question about how you adapt your
company in order to be successful. And
uh if you actually have two or three
founders, you have you have different
skills. You can compensate because by
the way, everyone has weaknesses. You
can compensate for each other's
weaknesses. Um you can uh in the
diversity of problems that you encounter
uh as a founder that you can actually
attack them. So, one of the things that
I I suggest when you when you look at
essentially a founding team is to have a
real high preference for having
co-founders, having a high degree of
trust for those co-founders because one
of the things, by the way, part of the
whole entrepreneurial thing is there's
lots of ways to die. One of the ways to
die is you get a year down the road with
your co-founders and then you're going
through a messy divorce, right? And
that's a that's a that that is uh not
always but frequently
fatal. And so um and then also the
diversity of kind of tasks that you're
trying to do. And actually okay yes I
was about to say that will be suboptimal
from the viewpoint of being able to look
at the slides.
Um the next thing is location. Uh and so
frequently I've heard told to me it's
like oh Silicon Valley aggregates all of
this uh super talent which it does uh in
terms of like what what actually in fact
it's it's the reason why Silicon Valley
uh startups are so successful is because
all of these great people immigration
which is hugely important for for Talon
and founders everything else you know
immigrate here and that's part of the
reason now it's actually if you think
about it from basic math path. Even if
you take something that that Silicon
Valley is super strong at, which is
essentially software uh skills in the
last uh two decades, not all of the
great software people move here. Not all
of them can move here. There are many of
them in various other parts of the
world. And and so why do I put choice of
location as one of the things that comes
down to thinking about whether or not
you're a great founder? Well, the reason
is is because what great founders do is
seek the networks that will be essential
to their problem and their task. And
they realize that it isn't just about
like kind of like I am super person. I
can do this anywhere. I can do this you
know in you know the Antarctic etc. is
in order to be successful I have to go
to where the strongest networks are for
the particular kind of problem or the
particular kind of thing that I'm doing.
And Silicon Valley by the way is super
good at some uh kind of tasks, some
places that you essentially try to uh
solve certain kinds of problems but is
not good at all of them. Let me take you
know kind of two examples. So one is
Groupon. I don't think Groupon could
have ever been founded here. Even though
it's a software product, it actually
even generates a network which you know
obviously a lot of the great networks
are here and uh and uses a um uh kind of
internet technology as a mobile product
and everything else. All of which we
have a lot of great skills here in
Silicon Valley and the networks are
really good for this. One of the things
that's central for Groupon for its early
days was having massive sales forces and
massive sales forces strengths and
weaknesses of networks tend to go
together. Silicon Valley tends to be
pretty adverse to plans that involve
like, oh, we're going to uh rent a
25story building and in 20 of those
stories we're going to have floors of
salespeople and that's how we're going
to get our thing going. That kind of
plan here tends to not get a lot of
interest, tends to get a lot of
criticism, tends to not have talent
aggregate to it, tends to have
financeers talk about things like
capital efficiency and network effects
and other kinds of things that are that
are key here. And so it's actually not a
surprise that actually in fact Groupon
require was required to be actually in
Chicago which is really good at this as
a way of actually kind of getting going
and and showing that even software
startups can be in other places. But
even if you begin to think about it you
say okay well what kinds of of
of you know other kinds of startups
would someone be an idiot to move here
to do? Think of someone we're doing a
fashion startup. Not fashion all up,
Parchark, which is, you know, a mobile,
you know, marketplace, etc., which are a
bunch of things that are good here, but
like I'm designing a new fashion company
and I'm going to come to Silicon Valley
to do it. That's actually not such a
great idea, right? And I said, the
fashion company might be a great idea,
but you want the networks that support
what you're doing. And so part of the
reason why where should I locate my
startup is a test for thinking about uh
am I a great founder is because part of
what happens when you're actually
founding a company is you're going I
will go to where it's successful this to
do to to to be because the metaphor that
I frequently use for entrepreneurship is
jumping off a cliff and assembling an
airplane on the way down and the reason
is because it's hard it has a quasmortal
exit by which you're default dead and so
you're taking every possible
chance to actually win. And so great,
look, I'll move to what the network is.
And that is, you know, this graphic is
frequently Silicon Valley, but for for
tech startups, for mobile, for networks,
for marketplaces, you know, this is a
really good place to do it. For a bunch
of other things, you should think about
whether or not it's a different
location. Now, here's something that,
you know, it's very in vogue, right?
Very conventional to say you're
contrarian these days. Um, and so let's
talk a little bit about what
contrarianness actually in fact is. Um,
so it's actually pretty easy to be
contrarian. It's hard to be contrarian
and right. And in particular, when
you're thinking about is my idea
contrarian or contrarian enough, it's
how does a smart person actually
disagree with me? Right? is because if
you can't think of a smart person who
isn't like ignorant or just crazy or
something else but is a smart person who
was somewhat expert in this thinks that
your idea has some serious challenges
then it actually isn't contrarian right
so contr and contrarian is also is
always actually this is one of the
things that Sam and I talked about at
startup school is contrarian is actually
relative to an audience right so when
you want to be when you're when you're
thinking about contrarian in terms of
like a really good contrarian idea is
like okay what would other say it's
consumer internet good consumer internet
people think is actually in fact not yet
a good idea and part of when you think
about contrarian is to say okay what's
the way that uh what do I know that
other people don't know because it isn't
just a oh I'm brilliant and other people
aren't and that's the reason my
contrarian thing is right that's a very
bad test might happen to be true of
course lightning could also strike you
in the
right? You know, so think a lot about
like what is it that I know that other
people don't know. So for example, in
the very early days of LinkedIn, part of
what I advise uh all founders to do is
go talk to every smart person who will
talk to you and give you feedback. So
with LinkedIn, I walked around and said,
"Here's my idea. What do you think?"
Twothirds or more of my network,
including some of the very very smart
people, all thought I was nuts. And the
reason why I thought I was nuts was
because they said, "Well, look, it's a
network product. It's only valuable with
a bunch of people in it. First person,
no value. invite second person, second
person, first person at no value for
either of them. They already know each
other. When do you when do you actually
begin to deliver on your use case, which
is like 500k to a million people, right?
And so, you're never going to get to
size. It's never going to grow. Now,
what I knew that the critiques, the
critics didn't know was that I could
think of a set of different ways by
which people say, "Look, it's pretty
easy to say, look, I believe in the
vision of this, or I think it's
interesting, or I think a product like
this should exist, or I'm willing to
play around with it." And I can you
leverage those sets of interest to grow
the network to get to enough size that
you could begin to deliver on the value
propositions in which LinkedIn had. And
that was the specific thing that I knew
that the critics weren't thinking about.
And so when you think about being
contrarian, you have to think about how
is it that smart people disagree with
me? They disagree with me from a
position of intelligence, right? And
there's something that I know that they
don't know that actually in fact will
play out to be true. Now in this case in
general as a as a founder it's good to
be contrarian in the real sense and
right now the other last part on
contrarianness is to think about there's
lots of different ways to be contrarian.
So for example a frequent one will be is
like oh yeah that's a good small idea
but actually no it's not small it's
large or you know actually in fact uh
you can assemble the talent or while
most consumer internet uh startups tend
to be like for example there's another
LinkedIn example tend to be uh only
successful at the rocket ships actually
a gradual compounding curve can actually
be very very valuable LinkedIn never had
its rocket ship moment it was it was
kind of compound year by year but that
in the consumer internet tends to be a
atypical to the pattern.
So here you begin to get to a bunch of
sorts of problems that
um essentially founders run into which
is like well should I be doing the work
or should I be recruiting people and
delegating the work and classically the
answer to this is actually in fact you
need to do both right and uh in fact uh
not only do you need to do both you need
to do sometimes one at 100% and
sometimes the other one at 100% and
sometimes even though this is not so
good at math both at
100%. And so uh what you'll see is this
is actually classic when you begin
thinking about what is a great founder
is you navigate what is apparent
paradoxes. So another one that I
frequently talk about is you got to be
both flexible and persistent. And the
reason for this is entrepreneurs are
frequently given the advice to you know
have a vision stay firm against
adversity. you know realize that you you
have this vision that is contrarian to
what other people think and just stay on
track get through the difficult times
and get there. The other piece of advice
given with equal vigor is uh listen to
data, listen to customers, uh pivot, be
flexible. Right? Part of the thing that
this comes out to being in terms of
being a great founder is to say, well,
when should I be persistent? When should
I be flexible? And the the vehicle that
I most often use for this is you should
have on a project you're doing like a
company an investment thesis that
essentially says why you think possibly
contrarian why you think this is
potentially a good idea. It should
include what you know that you think
other people don't know. And then as
you're going into the battlefield, you
go is, you know, am I in fact increasing
confidence in my investment thesis or
decreasing confidence in my investment
thesis? Because if I'm increasing
confidence, then oh, stay on track. You
know, be persistent. And by the way,
sometimes even with adversity, your
confidence can can increase. If it's
decreasing, that doesn't mean jump out.
uh PayPal, LinkedIn, uh Airbnb, a whole
bunch of startups I've been I've been a
part of have had months where you were
like, "Oh my god, this why did we ever
think this was a good idea?" It was kind
of a valley of the shadows moment. So
like example in PayPal it was, you know,
August 2000, we were burning $12 million
in one month. The expense curve was
exponentiating. We had no revenue.
Decrease in confidence. However, we say,
"Okay, what do we do in order to fix
that?" And that gives you your immediate
action plan. Another one is should you
have belief or should you have fear?
Right? Should you have you know could
you should you essentially go well no I
I have this vision of the way the world
should be and I should ignore everything
else and I should just go at that. Well,
again, part of what being a great
founder is is being both able to hold
the belief to think about where it is
you want to be doing and where want to
be going, but also be smart enough that
you're essentially listening to
criticism, uh, negative feedback, uh,
competitive entries where you're kind of
going, okay, is this changing my
investment thesis? Is this changing what
I'm planning on doing? It doesn't mean
you lose confidence. You have the
confidence, but you also essentially
have the
peril. Again, in this kind of thing of
how do you put these two things
together? Should I focus internally,
build the product, ignore the world,
ignore competitors, etc. Or should I
focus externally? Should I be
recruiting? Should I be meeting people?
Should I be gathering network
intelligence? Again, the answer is both.
And the reason why I'm focusing on these
kind of it's it's both rather than
either or is because part of what makes
a great founder is the ability to to to
be flexible across these lines to
sometimes be 90% one way sometimes be
80% the other way be executing the
judgment on what is the current problem
look like how is it that when I'm trying
to solve this that I should say this is
what we should be doing and how should I
be dividing the work and part of when
you think about these things as you say
like this is another one is kind of
classic is people say well I'm
completely motivated by data it's what
customers say I do user groups you know
I've uh a lot of entrepreneurial
methodologies lean other kinds of things
are talked about is like gather the data
be guided on the data well actually in
fact data only exists within the
framework of a vision that you're
building to a hypothesis of where you're
moving to and the data can even be
negative and you can think well actually
in fact this negative data means that I
need to change or alter the way that I'm
thinking about something, but I actually
keep on a specific vision about what I'm
doing. And and by the way, sometimes
even when you have that specific vision,
you don't necessarily actually ever end
up at that big vision that you were
thinking about. So, for example, you
know, at PayPal, we distributed these
t-shirts that said uh the new global uh
world currency, right? Well, actually,
in fact, one of the the and I I know
Peter's been here. Um one of the jokes I
told Peter is like, "Well, actually, we
do have this new world global currency.
What we're trading in is dollars. You
may have heard of it. It's existed for a
while, right? We're essentially a master
merchant for that. Um, now of course
this precages what might be happening
with Bitcoin, although you know there's
the whole another topic there. However,
the key thing is is that vision of
saying we are creating a kind of a
universal network that allows anyone to
to pay anyone to become a merchant to
bring the electronics into the speed of
commerce at any business that that is
being transacted. that vision kept a
true north by we say well first we think
we're going to have a banking model then
we think we're going to have you know um
a a a debt model oh no we're actually
have a master merchant model and how
does that actually play out so you
always combining the vision and the data
and the data is within the framework of
of a vision and sometimes of course the
what you learn changes your vision now
this is one of the ones that I actually
think we we we we saved this special
picture for one of the ones that I
actually think is quite key is that
normally entrepreneurs ers uh founders
are thought about as having like they're
risktakers, right? They're they're they
they they whereas everyone else cowers
in fear from this notion of risk, they
boldly go out. Now, that's true. You
have to be a risk taker. You have to be
thinking about how do I make a really
coherent bet on risk because in fact the
only really big opportunities, the only
contrarian opportunities that smart
people disagree with you on happen to be
one that have risk associated with them.
On the other hand, part of the skill set
that when you're beginning to
apply how you think about risks as an
entrepreneur is you're beginning to
think about like how do I take
intelligent risks? How do I take a
focused risk that if I'm right about
that one thing, right, then a bunch of
other things break my way? And once I
start doing that, I try to figure out
how to make my my onshot possibility as
high as possible. Eg, how do I minimize
other risks? How do I essentially take
this risk in an intelligent way that
doesn't just go, "Oh, yeah, risk, risk
to the win. Who cares, right? Let's go."
And so this kind of combines that, you
know, this image, which I think is the
best of the of the of the images we
found for this yet, is kind of the sense
of how to think about it. Now, back to
what I was uh saying in terms of uh
having an investment thesis. Part of
having an investment thesis is you chart
it out, it's kind of the list of
bullets. You say like for example, in
early LinkedIn, it was like look uh
everyone is actually going to be
benefited by a public professional
network. uh everyone will realize
including companies that it's better to
have it uh uh play out this way. Uh the
initial set of adoption will come from
uh essentially people who are like
visualize the role this way are willing
to play with it and then eventually the
mass market will come on as they begin
to have a network that is already
delivering a value proposition to them.
That's what kind of an investment thesis
can look like. And then you know you got
economics so like initially recruiting
and then and then broadening other
things. You have that investment thesis
and you say is my investment thesis
increasing or decreasing in confidence.
Do I think that the data that I get from
the market when I talk to smart people
how does that how does that change my
confidence in it? And this is actually
how you essentially minimize risk. So
for example very early very early days
in PayPal um the part of what happened
is they said okay well we're going to do
cash on mobile phones. with cash on Palm
Pilots because it's really easy. We
actually realized the cash on Palm
Pilots wouldn't work even before we
launched the product because basically
what happened is I went in and said to
Max and Peter, I said, "Look, here's our
challenge. Our challenge is we're this
room probably doesn't remember what Palm
Pilots are." Um, they were like like
early
PDAs. Um and so uh we lived in where
what was Palm Pilot Central and the
whole use case was splitting the dinner
tab and how many people if everyone at
the table would have a Palm Pilot split
your dinner tab 0ero to one in every
single restaurant. So you could even
just by thinking it through you realize
like the direction you're on is going to
hit a minefield and you need to pivot.
And that's when Max Lebin came up with
the idea of saying actually in fact we
could sync by emails we could have email
payments as the backbone of this and
we're like oh that's a good idea and of
course that's what the whole thing kind
of pivoted into and that's part of
thinking through minimizing the risks as
you're actually
executing. Here's another one that's
kind of classic, which is well, should I
have this long-term vision or should I
be solving local near-term problems? And
again, the answer is both. It's these
paradoxes. And the question is, is you
jump between them. You should always
have a long-term vision in mind because
if you actually completely lose your
your directions, eventually you'll find
yourself in some field there's not a
good path out of. But if you're not
focused on solving the problem that's
immediately in front of you, you're
hosed, right? And so um part of the uh
the question about how you put these
things together is you say
okay shortterm what's the thing I need
to be doing today have I made progress
today have I made progress this week but
is it largely on path so I'll give you
an example of how this plays out in
terms of financing or in terms of
strategy so people frequently think
product strategy is fundamental to how
um uh startups like I have a product
idea that's a thing I'm a founder
actually in fact the next level down on
strategy is usually product distribution
whether it's consumer internet or um uh
or enterprise or anything else because
actually in fact no matter how good your
product is if it doesn't get to
customers you're hosed. So usually you
have to have product distribution is
more fundamental than the actual what
the product is. And the one below it is
financing. And the reason why it's
financing is if you run out of money and
the whole effort goes away. Even if you
have a really good idea, it doesn't
work. So frequently when you're
executing on a good strategy, you're
actually in fact when I'm raising money,
this fund raising, I'm thinking about
the next fundraising. I'm thinking about
how I'm set up for it. I'm establishing
relationships that would be key to that.
And I'm I'm not executing like, oh, the
only thing that matters is I get to the
next is get to the next fundraising
because you have this business that
you're building, but I'm thinking that
as a core strategy in terms of how I'm
executing and frequently you're thinking
about, okay, how does my product
distribution work such that the
financing works well? And that's kind of
how you architect these things
together. So, how do you know if you
might be a great founder? Well, it's you
should have some superpowers. It's
generally speaking in software useful to
be a good product person. It's useful to
have good skills about kind of
leadership of bringing networks in of
persuading people. And it's useful to um
be able to and this is kind of the most
fundamental is recognize whether or not
you're on track or not to have both that
kind of uh belief but also paranoia
about am I tracking against my
investment thesis? And when you do that
the right way and you're learning and
you're assembling people and you're
assembling networks around you, that's
generally speaking how you end up being
a great founder. Now, classically, and
and I deliberately put up five white men
male pictures is classically you have a
kind of a these are the iconic founders,
but in fact founders can be very
diverse. They can be
extraordinarily uh talented at different
areas because there's different kinds of
entrepreneurial companies. There's
different kinds of problems that they're
trying to solve. And I don't just mean
diversity in terms of classic, you know,
kind of gender, race, etc. I diversity
in age, diversity in experience. You
know, Jack Maw was a uh was a a teacher
before he got into this. That's the kind
of thing that you can that you should
think about. And so the the question is
is how you cross uneven ground, how you
assemble networks around you, how you
get people to assemble this that it's a
constantly changing problem to face when
you are trying to found a company. And
so
um I think that the thing that I was
trying to get people to think about with
this is to say there's not one skill
set. There's an ability to learn and
adapt, an ability to constantly have a
vision that's driving you, but to be
taking input from all sources uh and
then to be uh creating networks around
you. And that's essentially what makes a
great founder and your ability to do
that while crossing uneven ground in a
fog, which is kind of the the the way
that entrepreneurs because you don't
really know like did you always know
this is going to work? No. Unless you're
crazy, right? Uh although sometimes
crazy works. Um so with that I will now
go to a few questions. Um but it was
kind of this mindset of founders which
is kind of key and if there's no
question oh here I'm curious about how
in LinkedIn how you um you targeted the
early adop or that you selected and came
with a strategy for getting the right
early adopters that you knew would
strengthen your investment thesis and
really help it take off because it seems
like every startup faces that Yep. that
same challenge. So, one of the really
fundamental things is to is to think
about product distribution as key. And
for
LinkedIn, we had a couple things going
for us. So, one, the web was boring in
2003. Um, that basically what happened
is everyone had thought the consumer was
over and so people were doing clean tech
and enterprise software and everything
else. It's a much harder problem now
because everyone thinks the internet and
mobile is interesting and so breaking
through the noise is really key. So, the
strategy we use wouldn't work. We just
actually set up sent out some
invitations to a group of people and
then tune the mechanism to have and did
PR to get people like one of the
decisions we made early that was right
was to say should we only allow it as
invite only or should we allow cold
signups. The reason we should allow cold
signups is because the people who were
super enthusiastic about this weren't
necessarily the people we know so they
would sign up and spread it. That sort
of thing were all the kind of decisions
we made.
Now that challenge is much harder
because the challenge when you think
about product distribution is is how are
you competing for potential customers or
potential members time and what do they
think what do they have to believe in
back in 2003 it was like well a
professional network that's potentially
a good idea what the hell I'll play with
it there's not a lot of other things for
me to look at today there's tons of
things and so your strategy today when
you're looking at product distribution
has to be what is my really decisive
edge what is the hack that I know that
other people don't know
as an investor when someone come to you
how do you tell you know he's a good
found or not from just like our p um so
how do I know if someone's a good
founder or not um well it's not uh I'm a
huge believer in references um usually I
only ever actually no 100% of the time
in this case I only meet with someone
when they come to me through a reference
so one of the things by the way is a
thing is I after this I have to run off
cuz I have a meeting I need to get to.
If you want to actually get time and
attention with me, find a reference.
It's not a pitch to using LinkedIn. It's
a question of this is how you sort out
time. You can find a like Sam knows me.
Not to throw Sam under the bus, right?
Yes. Um and so, uh a reference to me is
uh in fact the way that I do this.
system. And so for example, when I met
with the Airbnb guys, uh part of the
reason why I could interrupt them 2
minutes into their pitch and say, "I'm
going to make you an offer to invest. I
want to hear the rest of the pitch
because I think what you're doing here
is is uh is magical and awesome." Was
because I'd already had references on
them. Like that was only 2 minutes, not
even 30 minutes because I already knew
about them before going in. And by the
way, by and large, that's some version
that is true of most of the great
investors. And it's that it's that uh
network that's really key. I think there
was a question over here too. Here. So
would you consider density of insight to
be a strong signal for great founders?
Density of insight is a strong signal
for great founders. Can you say another
sentence? So so being able to distill a
thesis out of a whole variety of
observations down to a concise sentence.
Well, I would definitely say that the
ability to say coherently what you're
targeting and to articulate something
that isn't trying to boil the ocean or a
Swiss Army knife approach, but it's like
one focus like look, if we're right
about this, then it works. That is
actually pretty important to be to being
able to judge a founder because if you
don't have that level of clarity, you're
not going to be able to assemble the
network behind you. You're not going to
be able to get investors. You're not
going to get employees. You have to be
able to articulate a very clear mission
about what you're doing. Um and insight
is helpful although uh a little bit of
this depends on the stage. It is always
if I find I find myself attracted to
founders who've analyzed the problem a
good way but but frequently I've seen
great founders who do not present good
analysis but have an instinct about what
they're doing and so you more chart what
kind of what's going on around them.
um you know when LinkedIn had like 5
years of like u I guess
um ramp up time like what what kept you
going to like keep like doubling down on
the original uh
so why how did I keep persistence when
cuz actually LinkedIn went through you
know uh let's see for those who remember
uh we were we were treated as the uh as
the as the as the little alternative to
Fster then to MySpace then to Facebook
right so we had a lot different like we
are the little teeny one next to these
to these respective giants each of the
time. Ultimately for me when I was
thinking about LinkedIn this gets back
to the investment thesis as a mechanism
I continued to believe the actually in
fact the right economic system design
for every individual's life and for
organization's life is to have public
professional profiles that that that
world is the way the world should be
everyone's much better off with it and
we are getting closer to that than
everyone else it may be that it hasn't
taken off as fast as I liked it may be
that the general world is going oh this
social stuff is really interesting we
Like we could only get in the news in
the fall in the summer of 2003 by saying
we were friends but for business which
is completely like nonsensical once you
begin to you know you begin to look at
the thing but it was like okay we'll
cover you cuz it's friends but but for
business and that was important to begin
to get people to pay attention to us and
so the confidence was that world I still
have confidence believe that it should
exist and no one is getting closer to it
than we it's taking us maybe longer than
I'd hoped to get there but that's
Okay. So, same when you get it wrong,
when you meet a founder that you think
is going to be really good and, you
know, seems to be able to move between
these opposing forces. Yep. And on paper
seems like they're going to go the
distance.
What is it that makes you get wrong
about someone that looks good at first
observation? Well, to some degree, you
can only fully cross these kind of
minefield by actually going and doing
it, right? So, you can be wrong about
your hypothesis. The kinds of things
that frequently get you wrong get get
wrong are when you think that a person
because they like for example one of the
tests that I frequently use in an
interaction is I push on the idea some
and what I'm looking for is both
flexibility and persistence. I'm looking
for no I have conviction in what I'm
thinking and I'm arguing it but I'm
listening to what you're saying and I'm
adapting to the concerns and whatnot of
what of how you think about that.
Sometimes you'll find someone who says
look I've learned to mimic that
behavior. So I've learned to say for
example I've learned to look look like
I'm reasoning with you and I look like
I'm I'm thinking about the challenges
you bring up but actually in fact I'm
ignoring you right and ignoring me that
might be fine right ignoring the world
in general is usually disaster uh and so
those are the kinds of things that in
the measurement you can see essentially
getting wrong but
um but usually the kind of thing like
most often the kind of reference
questions I ask about founders is like
adaptability. Uh like one of the phrases
that I frequently look for is infinite
learning curve because each entrepreneur
pattern is to some degree unique and new
and can you learn the new one right as
way of doing it. And so um like does the
learning break down or is there some
major skill set? Is there an ego issue
that gets in the way like well I must be
the great like everyone everyone must
agulate me and that will cause you to to
behave wrongly in adapting to the
problem those kinds of things. I think I
have uh one last question. The woman in
the back. Um what makes a great
co-founding team? And from your
perspective, what makes a good
partnership when you're evaluating how
to be a great co-founder? Co-founding
team, how to evaluate uh and then how to
think about co-founders. So the first
thing is it's super important that you
collaborate really well. That was the
kind of the point I was making during
the team, the the the initial part of
that because if you in fact don't have
pretty good serious trust um
uh you know kind of a way of of um it's
150 that I'm supposed to end right 205.
Oh 205. No, no, no, no. I'll keep going.
Sorry. I I I misread the time. So I have
I will have time for more questions.
Sorry. I was trying to be trying to be
good. the um
uh so okay let me give a little bit
longer answer to this then so the key
thing is when you're thinking about
founder founder uh founders is do you
have a diversity of the necessary
strengths across the whole range of
strengths that would be useful
frequently you need one technical
founder uh at least uh frequently you
need to have someone who is uh who is
going to be dedicated to the business
side fundraising these sorts of things
that's kind of classically skill set
when you think about the two to three
and usually it's kind of some uh
composition across them. And that's kind
of like what you'd think of as founders
one when you're thinking about a
founding team. When you
um when you get the next level deep, for
example, one of the things that people
will classically tell you is like for
example, don't invest in a husband wife
team. And actually that's look that that
adds a little extra uh freight to it and
everything else cuz you know does
personal dynamics also uh upset what's
going on. I actually think that what
you're looking for is do they
collaborate well? Do they help each
other get to truth? Right? So, for
example, I am most heartened when I'm
talking to a team that when they're when
they're reasoning to each other, they're
not like, "Oh, we're just all singing
from the same thing." It's like, "Oh,
but did you think about this or what
about this is a challenge?" Like, you're
navigating the field of battle which has
a bunch of risks. Like for example, one
of the things that was pretty common in
PayPal is uh Max who who invented the
fraud systems and everything else would
frequently come into Peter's office,
Peter Teal, Max Levchin, and say, "Look,
here are some things that are going to
kill us and let me focus you on them."
Right? So, it's not like we're all just
kind of saying, "Oh, yes, we're all
singing our kumbayas," but we are
adjusting to what is truth and what's
the problem that we need to solve,
what's the problem in the short term,
what's the problem in the long term, and
how are we tackling it? And that
composition within a team, that
collective problem solving, that
collective learning is the kind of thing
that actually usually makes great
teams. Thank you for this wonderful
lecture. I recall says we all dream of a
flying horse, but we end up 140
characters. So I ask you you know how to
identify the great funers in different
sectors like some might be social
network like you and somehow maybe we
are working on like quantum computing or
how hard how to call science or the
vision to mark for those companies. Do
you see any common place or any
different? So different founders
different areas how do you identify
them? So the talk was aimed at kind of
what is unique about the mindset I think
of founders that is great founder across
all uh all founders that's that's part
of what this was attempting to say look
because there are differences so for
example in
software speed to market speed to to
learning is really key in hardware if
you screw it up you're dead right so
accuracy really matters right because if
you if you build and ship the wrong
thing, you're hosed. So, generally
speaking, as an investor, uh, and this
is part of the reason why a lot of
investors, you know, have a certain set
of things that they then learn pretty
well and try to reapply because they try
to understand a domain well enough to be
able to identify which are the founders
in this domain that really matter. And
if we're investing in this domain, how
do we do that? Well, um, and so there
are attributes that are unique per
domain. Uh so for example uh you know
like like if like one of the classic
ones is how good must you be at
operational efficiencies in terms of
margins cost controls etc. you're
dealing in the worlds of atoms,
including even an e-commerce, you got to
be really good at that. You're doing a
uh a digital gaming like a like a zinga-
like startup doesn't matter at all.
Right? So, and and so you look for that
kind of fits and proclivities. And part
of the beginning of this is it's not
actually in fact that it's one person as
good at everything. I would be like one
of the funniest conversations I had with
with with a guy, a friend of mine who
worked for me at my first startup,
Social Net, is he looked at me and he
said, "Reed, I would never hire you to
be a manager of McDonald's." I'm like,
"Yeah, I wouldn't either. I'd be
terrible at that." Right? And so, it's
it's the skill set that fits, but also
the the whole point of this is actually
navigating a set of things that look
like paradoxes. Sometimes being heavy on
one, sometimes heavy on the other, and
being having the right judgment at the
moment in terms of what you're doing,
and that's what tends to be more
universal.
Um, you mentioned that it took longer
than you would have liked to grow. Can
you speak a little bit about uh when how
to know whether or not you should stay
in or when how to know when to give up
um also maybe even uh with respect to
like your personal your career goals or
like how it fits into. So the question
is basically how do you know when to
pivot? Um, part of the reason why having
investment thesis and your confidence in
investment thesis and being pretty clear
on that is generally speaking the answer
that I give people is if your confidence
uh is unmeasured for a fairly long time
or is decreasing because unmeasured for
a fairly long time should be decreasing
and it's decreasing and then you go into
intense mode where you're trying to
figure out what kinds of things you
would do that would increase your
confidence, right?
uh and that's failing. That's a
seriously good time to think about
pivoting, right? Uh and and you might
have uh thesis on can we raise money.
You might have thesis on will what's the
uh pattern by which the product
distribution or growth or you know viral
invitation or SEO or anything else will
work. And it's like well I tried these
three things and this fourth thing
doesn't seem as good as these three and
the next two things that I think about
seem even worse. that begins to decrease
your confidence and that's when you
should think about pivoting. A frequent
mistake when it comes to pivoting is
wait until you've essentially like
crashed into the wall and everything is
dead and you can't make any you can't
maneuver anymore and that's that's you
waited way too long. Now um now in terms
of personal career goals and so forth,
you know, part of the thing that um I
would say that is
uh uh one of the things that I I had
meant to talk to you during the slides
that uh since I misread the time I I I
rushed through it a little bit. One of
the classic questions is balance. And I
actually think founders have no balance.
Like one of the funniest conversations I
ever had was with a governor of Colorado
who's like we're going to attract really
great entrepreneurs here because we have
this balanced lifestyle. Like like
literally if I ever hear a founder
talking about oh this is how I have a
balanced life and so forth. They're not
committed to winning, right? And so the
only really great founders are like I am
going to literally pour everything into
doing this. Now it only may be for a
couple years. I may do this for a while
then go do all things but while I'm
doing this I am unbalanced at this
thing. It's not to say you don't take
breaks. It's not to say you don't, you
know, go on dates or whatever else, but
you're super focused on this because
it's really hard and there's lots of
ways to die. And that's the reason why
the jumping off the cliff metaphor is
one of the ones that I classically use.
So your definition
of sorry depends on the idea of
identifying uncertain opportunities
which others don't necessarily see. uh
overall how efficient do you think the
startup ecosystem is at identifying good
opportunities? So how good is the
startup ecosystem at identifying
contrarian opportunities? Um let's see
that's kind of challenge because the
moment it kind of obviously becomes
invogue it's less contrarian.
Um um I'd say it's mixed uh
sometimes because part of what makes a
great
investor is an ability to go look I take
this radical shot I take this radical
shot I take this radical shot and
there's enough people who are investors
there's usually someone if you can find
your way to them the network finding
your way through the network sometimes
difficult sometimes tons of noise hard
to get to the signal uh on the other
hand there's sometimes things that are
just kind of like you know totally crazy
like one of the funny things was, you
know, uh, uh, Benchmark was the only one
that would fund eBay. Um, you know, if
you talked to most of the people in the
valley a year, 18 months ago about
Bitcoin, they would have told you like
what bit what do I have no idea what it
is. And by the way, still unclear how
Bitcoin will play out. Although I think
the fact that there will be a
distributed trust system on
cryptocurrency is I think almost
certainly going to exist in the world.
And the real question is, is Bitcoin the
first or last cryptocurrency? first
there's new ones and new features last
because it's the one that has network
effects and is already going. Um and so
uh I think it's pretty good with it. Um
frequently what happens is uh people
think they're contrarian because they're
doing something they think is in a
unique com uh uh um unique uh
combination. I'll give you two examples
and hopefully the the founders of these
people who sent me these cool I get
about 30 pitches sent to me a day that I
don't basically don't look at unless
referral unless something in the title
makes me laugh in which case I look at
it mostly is comedy and I'll share two
comedy ones. One of them was uh wearable
diapers, which was the, you know, uh you
you have the computer monitoring, you
know, whether or not the kid is, you
know, uh taking a pee or a poop and then
let you know, and you're like, if you're
that far away from your child and this
kind of thing, it's probably a bad sign
of other things. Um and then the other
one was uh kind of uh customized
e-commerce bonks. You're like, "Oh, I
got a contrarian idea." You're like,
"Yes, you do, but not the right way."
Right? So anyway, so you know, but so I
think generally speaking, the system's
pretty good at it. In the back, you find
social net um ahead of time, I guess. Um
how do you think about creating markets
versus creating markets versus
discovering them? Yeah. Okay.
So, uh this is actually it's a
challenging question. The the
the frequent like and this and it's a
good follow on the contrarian thing like
frequently there's this classic thing of
oh, does the market exist yet? Is that
because it's going to be huge or
non-existent? The good news is it's
usually one or the other, right? Uh and
so that makes uh going after something
that most people don't think is a
market, but you have a reason to believe
it is actually sometimes frequently a
good bet. Um, however, it can it can
sometimes completely uh flame out and
one of the things you're doing when
you're testing your investment thesis is
what would lead me to think whether or
not there's a market there or not
because um you know at the beginning
there are no markets and so there it is
of course conceptually possible to
create markets. People think that
there's a a new need for this sort of
thing. On the other hand, the problem is
is how do you get fast adoption if
people don't even know that they want it
as a category, right? Right. So they
say, well, but people they just realize
like a classic entrepreneurial misfire,
a classic one is if people just real
like once it exists, they'll realize
that they really love it and they'll
they'll line up in droves for it. Well,
there's a few entrepreneurs, Steve Jobs,
one of them, who can do that. Most the
time it doesn't work out that way. And
so you have to say uh in your investment
thesis, why is it that you think when
you're thinking about a market that
isn't already existing that that you
know that other people don't know? on
the contrarian basis that leads you to
think that market should exist, right?
And so for example, a micro one with
LinkedIn was uh actually in fact the
classified means of recruiting was in
fact an exercise of newspapers, an
exercise of information age and actually
recruiting direct to people is part of
what the networkked age and the internet
and that's actually in fact how
recruiting should go. Now, it was
relatively easy to validate that, but
you know, that's the kind of thing where
you think about there's potentially a
new market. Last question. Yeah, last
question. When do you know you've known
someone long enough to start a company
from? One of the things Sam told us in
the first lesson was you need someone
you've known for a long time, but when
you guys started take out like for
example, how long did you It was a large
group of people. So, how do you know,
okay, I trust these people enough to
start a company?
So to I'm repeating the question in part
because this is rec recorded and
everything else make sure that people
hear it. But the question is basically
is how do you know that you trust
someone well enough to be a co-founder?
Uh there's a whole bunch of different
variables that go into it. And look,
this is one of the risks that you take.
Uh and you kind of get to a thesis of do
I think that I know them well enough? Uh
now I'll parallel one thing that I think
um there's a parallel here that I think
is super useful. So, one of the things I
tell my portfolio company CEOs or
founders when they're thinking about
hiring a CEO is um I think that the only
way to do this is when you get down to
the people that you're thinking you may
hire as a CEO, you spend 20 plus hours
with them, right? Where you go into as
much depth in the conversation about
anything you think is a possible
difference of opinion, belief, work
style. So you've identified all this
upfront so that you're you're you're not
that you have a contract. It's not like
oh we're signing a contract and this is
how we do it. But we've established the
conversation. We've we've gone to all
the parameters. We've had a conversion
about what we might agree with or
disagree with. One of the things that I
frequently think is worth covering is
almost like kind of the divorce like why
would we want to divor like what would
lead me to say this isn't working right
and to cover that upfront as part of it.
Because then at that point when you get
into the field of battle which is hugely
stressful you go through the valley
shadow the moment you've at least got
the basis of we've already conversed
about a wide variety of things we've set
up essentially some expectations about
what you know how we might be playing
together and if it begins to vary off
that it's relatively easy to bring it up
in a way that you're problem solving and
that's the kind of thing that I think
you frequently you should be fairly
confident that you have that level of
trust for me frequently it's to have a
set of robust conversations such that
it's like like if something comes up
later it's like well we've talked about
this in version and we can we can bring
that up. So anyway with that thank you
very much. Thank you.