Title: Joel Spolsky at Startup School 2012
Video ID: pPJf8KrvJXU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pPJf8KrvJXU
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2013-10-25T10:40:45Z
Duration: PT31M26S
Views: 35052
Likes: 332
Tags: Y Combinator, StackExchange, Startup School, Fog Creek Software, 2012, Joel Spolsky, YC
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 934

Description:
Joel Spolsky, founder of StackExchange and Fog Creek Software, at Y Combinator Startup School on October 20, 2012.

Presented in Stanford Memorial Auditorium by Y Combinator and the Stanford Technology Ventures Program.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Applause]
Hi everyone. All right, time to wake
up. How's
um Do we have slides? We do. Do I have a
clicker? Yes. How many There's a lot of
people here. Uh how many of you are
going to make some kind of a startup
after this event when when this is done?
Could you raise your hand, please? Yeah.
Great. Keep them up. Keep them up. Keep
them up. Okay. One, two, three, four.
Um, how how many of you are going to be
one of those 15 startups every year that
hits 100 million in revenue and deserves
VC
funding? More than 15. That's awesome.
So, this is a really good class.
Uh, I made something which a lot of
people don't understand is that these
two companies that I have, Faul Creek
Software and Stack Exchange. And, um,
I'm going to tell you that sort of just
in chronological order to try to explain
it. And there's all kinds of interesting
lessons in there. I think um for for
different ways to to create a startup
and to bootstrap uh a startup or take
funding. Um the almost every talk that
I've heard uh today uh has assumed that
you're going to be um getting money from
VCs. And um there there isn't enough
money in all the VCs in California to
fund all your companies. And um so if
you all kind of bang your heads against
that door um some of them are going to
get
bloodied. I'm I'm sorry. Sorry, I'm
really bad with metaphors. This was the
very first Fog Creek office. Um, Michael
Prior and I started Fog Creek Software
in the year 2000. Um, after uh we had
been working together at a company
called Juno Online Services, which was a
free ISP. Um, and uh uh I never wanted
uh to start a company. I uh it wasn't,
you know, my lifetime goal. I was
already uh in my mid-30s by the time I
started uh Fog Creek. And uh how old
does that make me now? Uh the uh point
point was uh that I couldn't find a cool
place to work. I couldn't find a place
where I wanted to work as a programmer
and um I I finally gave up on it and
decided that if I was going to have a
career that I found enjoyable as a
programmer, I would have to build my own
workplace. And of course, the irony is
that I don't get to program anymore. But
the very beginning of Fog Creek, um we
rented uh this office and that was my
desk. And um I literally took home
everything of the company in my knapsack
at at at work at the at the end of the
day for work, but I wanted to have a
place to go uh to work. And it was me
and Michael and we um hired a couple of
people very quickly. Now we had the
reason we knew we could start a business
even though I'm kind of a scaredy-cat
and not an entrepreneurial type uh was
that I had seen a whole bunch of other
businesses in those days. So this was
the first.com boom and this was sort of
a period much like today when people
were starting all kinds of idiotic
businesses to sell grilled cheese
sandwiches and whatever um crazy you
know Instagram for squirrels except it
was called something else in those days
and uh all these uh idiotic companies
what you could do is you could look at
them and say wow if I did that company
and I just didn't do these two stupid
things but I did them in a smart way
then that would definitely be a better
business than this one right so for For
me, the model was ars digit, which was a
consulting company that Phil Greenspan
uh created um which um collapsed after
they took VC. Um but everything did
really uh and um we were going to make
two tweaks on the RS digital model. So
he had this model that was like we're
going to do open-source software and
then consulting based on the open source
software. And my tweak was it was going
to be proprietary software and
consulting based on the proprietary
software. um and then you'd have another
um source of revenue was the theory. Um
we were both wrong. It doesn't really
matter what my theory was. I you know we
worked on that for about 15 minutes
before we effectively pivoted to
something else. But the most important
part of our business model is we weren't
going to spend any money until uh we had
some consulting revenue. And so this was
a time in the late 90s when there was
absolutely unlimited demand for anybody
who could put together, you know, a left
if you could type a left um a less than
and a greater than sign to make HTML on
the keyboard, then you could bill about
$200 an hour. And if you could actually
make an HTML page, that was like double
that. And there was sort of essentially
infinite demand. Um there was a company
called Scient, which um fortunately is
now completely gone. But in those days
they had they hired thousands of
computer science students and stuff like
that to build web pages for people and
scient. So, uh, there was just way too
much demand and we thought, you know,
we'll just take some of that overflow of
of all that demand, build some websites
for some people, make a few hundred an
hour, you know, with two or three of us
and build up enough money in the bank uh
to basically bootstrap the business. And
the truth is that that worked for us. We
had about two months of consulting uh
consulting and I think we might have
accumulated $250,000 in the bank or
something like that. And that was really
really helpful. So we started in
September 2000 uh in this very office.
We uh the consulting market the do the
dotcom crash occurred in November of
2000. And I know the exact month because
in that month if you look at all these
consulting companies there's Scient
Razerfish um Viant March 1st there was a
whole bunch of them and if you looked in
November 2000 their billings went down
by 90% in one month and they didn't know
it because they thought that this was
just an unusual lengthening of the sales
cycle meaning it was taking longer to
close new deals. uh they didn't realize
that this market had completely
collapsed and they didn't really decide
that the consulting market was gone and
never coming back until April of
2001. And in the meantime, they had
these big armies of consultants and they
burned through every penny that they had
in the bank paying these armies of
consultants to do nothing because they
had no clients. They had no clients
because everybody got scared that the
dot crash was going to happen and uh
stopped hiring consultants to save
money.
Uh so um consulting market crashed. We
had accumulated a little bit of money
and we luckily hadn't hired very many
people. So we didn't waste all that
money just keeping people employed uh
when we had no money. Um we did we had
hired a couple of people. Um we let them
go. So it was just me and Michael for a
long time as the co-founders and we
moved into this building which um
conveniently my grandmother owned and I
was in charge of managing it. So I just
sort of moved in and continued to pay
her rent um for a while. Uh this was our
office downstairs. Um uh and and and we
continued to sort of build a business
really really slowly and because there
was no consulting business. Uh what we
started selling was Fog Bugs because the
only thing we could find which is a bug
tracking software written internally in
VBScript. Uh and we started selling you
know Fog Bugs version 1.0. And you know
like the first day we sold it there's
like $2,000 somebody bought a site
license from Brazil or something. And uh
uh it it was awesome. And in fact, what
we were noticing is I think in the first
first few months we were making
somewhere around $5,000 a month, I think
is the right number. And uh that was
kind of enough to eat. And you know,
eventually we paid my grandmother for
all the rent that we were consuming. Uh
and um as as time elapsed, the neat
thing was that this number was going up
every single month. And it was going up
very slowly, but it was going up and it
was in a really really bad market. Uh
but we were selling software and it just
got better and better and better because
we worked on it. and uh our revenue went
up to when it hit $15,000 we could
afford to pay Michael a salary and I had
some savings in the bank. Um so $15,000
a month is I I always just automatically
calculate $10,000 per person that needs
a salary and all our overhead expenses
including the rent was
$5,000. So, uh, we then hit 25,000 and I
started taking a salary. And when we hit
35,000, we hired a third guy, um, who
came on to, uh, um, start, you know,
answering the phones and doing some tech
support and helping us with some of the,
uh, some of the coding tasks, uh, that
we had. Um, and at some point, uh, we
built an we we got actually got an
office. This was, I'm guessing, about
2003, so like several years on. It was a
really long slog. Um, before we got our
first legit office. Um, and we built it
out really nicely. And uh, we were we
were always obsessed about giving
programmers airon chairs and 30-inch
monitors and private offices with doors
that close. And when we built this
office, I think we had room the first
time we took this office for seven
people. There were seven desks. Um, and
eventually we um doubled the space that
we had there and we made room for I
think 12 people or something like that.
And it was getting bigger and bit
bigger. We all ate lunch together um, at
this big table. Um, these are a lot of
summer interns. We took summer interns
every summer and that's that's how we
did it. got a recruiting
pipeline. Uh, and again, Fog Creek just
continued to grow. And this is the last
time I remember getting the company
together for an all company uh, picture.
Um, but I think we're uh now at let's
say 40 45
people. Um, so that's one that's one
kind of company and that's uh that's Fog
Creek. Um, Fog Creek continued to do
well. We continue to sort of try to
launch new products every single year.
Um we we had this idea that um bug
tracking was not really the beall and
endall of products and we launched a
bunch of stuff. We had a bunch of summer
interns launch a remote desktop product
called Copilot. Uh that that did pretty
well. That actually um you know more
than paid for itself and now earns us
sort of a nice dividend. Uh Fog Bugs was
obviously the big bread winner and is
now a very large uh product. And uh um
we launched a bunch of other stuff. Some
of it worked, some of it didn't work.
There was we launched a job board for
the Indian programmers market and made
50 rupees total ever selling one job
listing.
Um that that is the worst product we
ever did. Um and then I wanted to do
this thing to I wanted to kill experts
excha exchange which you all probably
know about right? Does anybody know
stack overflow? Anyone heard of that
stack overflow thing? Um so the goal
there was to kill experts exchange
because they were evil.
And what was cool about Stack Overflow
is you could explain it that simply and
everybody understood what you were
talking about. Uh you didn't have to go
into any detail of how it would work. Uh
and um I couldn't find anybody
internally that wanted to work on that.
So um I got together with Jeff Atwood um
who's another blogger called um known as
Coding Horror and um said you know will
you join will you join us? This will be
sort of a 50-50 Fog Creek Jeff Atwood um
joint production uh uh to do Stack
Overflow. And I saw I I kind of thought
of this as sort of a side bet. Like
let's get Jeff working on this. I'll
help him when I can. Um if this thing
takes off, awesome. If it doesn't take
off, doesn't really matter. But
hopefully I can get rid of this experts
exchange problem. But uh uh but uh the
Stack Overflow did really well as it
turns out. And um the growth was
incredible. Unlike the other speakers, I
am perfectly happy to number uh the
numbers on my
y-axis.
And I'll even tell you
uh the uh um the growth here was insane.
From day one we saw this like literally
every single week we had more visitors
than the week before. Um at the
beginning I think it was the numbers
were were crazy. They we started out
with like 30,000 daily visitors and
that's about the same number as people
as I would get on a Jolan software blog
post. Um, so I knew that that was the
Jolan software audience coming uh
initially and um over time and and that
took 10 years to build that audience by
the way writing a blog. Um and uh and
and and the you would look at the Google
Analytics every single week and it would
just get a little bit higher and of
course it went down on the weekends and
then it would just go a little bit
higher and at some point it was growing
by more than a Jolan software like every
week and then it was growing by a Jolan
software every day and um it just grew
faster and faster and um eventually
encompassed the universe. Um now we um
at one point when we were around six
million on here so this measure is
global unique monthly visitors um that
measures people that just visit your
site once a month and it um we place a
cookie and uh um all we do is count the
cookies on Google Analytics. So there's
maybe two users on two different maybe
one person on two
computers. Um this uh the other thing
about Google Analytics is that the
cookie is placed on your domain and we
have four domains. So, um, we have to
break it down and we may have d we may
be double counting people that visit two
of our sites, uh, if they go to two
different domains, but I think that's
okay personally. And, uh, when we hit
about six million users, we had a
meeting with the folks in developer
relations at Microsoft and we said, hey,
how many developers, uh, do you think
there are in the world? They said six
million. Uh, they said 9 million. And
we're like, okay, we got twothirds of
the developers in the world. And then we
hit 9 million and then we hit 10
million. And then we hit 20 million. Now
we're at about 25 million of the world's
9 million software
developers depending on how you meet
that number. So
uh so there's two kinds of businesses
here that are completely different
actually. There is uh um there are two
ways you can build a business and
everybody up until now today and from
from Zuck onward has been talking about
the get big fast business and Stack
Exchange is indeed a get big fast
business.
It's growing. The stack exchange.com
domain is growing. What? And that's not
going to work anymore, is
it? The stack exchange.com domain is now
growing at uh 350% year-over-year, which
is I don't know, not the fastest thing
in the world, but it's pretty freaking
steady as you saw from that chart. So,
that's how we together for you. Sure.
You talk. Thanks, Jessica. Um, I wrote a
blog post on uh on on Jawan Software a
long time ago. um like in the mid two
early 2000s when I didn't have anything
else to do because you know the economy
was collapsing and it was called uh
strategy letter one because I was very
self-important and pompous then unlike
today of course thank you and uh and and
I was writing about how there's two
kinds of companies there's get big fast
companies like Amazon and then there's
organic growth companies and I had just
read the the the story of Ben and
Jerry's so they were an example of an
ice cream company and I kind of compared
and contrasted these two different ways
of growing a company And uh what's
interesting of course is that Stack
Exchange and Fog Creek have uh you know
kind of exactly the same
characteristics. Stack Exchange is a get
big fast company and uh Fog Creek
software is an organic growth company.
So first of all, how do you decide which
kind of company you should be? It's not
like you get to choose like how many of
you want to get big fast? Raise your
hand. Right. Okay. Um you have to look
at the actual market that you're in. And
there's two kinds of markets. A get pig
fast business is when you're in there
for there is some kind of a land grab.
There is an attempt to capture
uncaptured territory before anybody else
does the same thing. Okay. So Uber is in
that category. Amazon was certainly in
that category. Um Ben & Jerry's was not
because Ben and Jerry's was just ice
cream. You can't capture the entire ice
cream market. There already isn't ice
cream market, right? This is this is
like you're trying to new new technology
trying to land grab virgin territory in
an organic growth business. you already
have a million competitors and all
you're doing is trying to claw them away
one at a time patiently um from from
your competitors. Um the reason you try
to get big fast and you go for a little
land grab is because there are network
effects. So you all know what network
effects are. The idea of network effects
is the more users you have the more
valuable your network is. And so a
network of uh let's say if Facebook had
10,000 users that's not very valuable.
And in fact it would be extremely
difficult. Facebook was a classic land
grab because nobody's going to be on
there if they can't communicate with
their friends. The same reason I can't
get anybody to use kick because there
there's nobody else on there. Um I mean
there's like 10 million people on there,
but it doesn't really help. You know,
that's not enough. I need I need a
billion. And uh
uh um so a network effect says basically
the value is increasing as you get more
and more people on there because you
know the the value is a function of n
squ, right? You're all computer
scientists. Um, the other thing about
get big fast is that network effect
creates lock in, right? Nobody's going
to leave Facebook for something that's
20% better or 50% better or even 100%
better because their grandma is still
looking for the pictures of the puppy
and she likes the pictures of the puppy
that you upload and if you stop putting
them on Facebook, she's going to call
you. Doesn't matter if the other thing
is like more technologically innovative
and cool. Now, in an organic growth
company, you don't have these things and
so you don't really care about that and
you don't need to go for a land grab and
a land grab won't help you because
you're not grabbing virgin
territory. Um, so that's what get big
fast means. You need to be really big in
order to create real value. And uh, with
organic growth, you're in there for the
long haul. It took us 10 years to build
fog bugs into a respectable business.
And the the the reason is that there are
a million bug trackers out there. And uh
so with organic growth business you
unless you have infinite money because
you were born rich or something you need
to break even right away. You need to
find a way to break even right away. And
we did that by consulting by essentially
you know sort of hoing ourselves out for
a couple months to raise a little bit of
cash. Um and you want to start getting
money from clients on day one. and you
want to start kind of obsessing about I
need to make this business
survive so I can be there to slowly pry
away customers one one dead customer at
a time from my um and one thing about an
organic growth business is you don't go
in here unless you have a product that's
valuable even with one customer. Uh so
the ideal business is something where
the first person that downloads it and
starts using it is already getting value
out of this
thing. Um you run your business
completely differently. So when you when
you're trying to get big fast, if you
have a problem that can be solved with
money, money is cheap, which I know
sounds weird, but um in this
environment, it's it's if you have a
successful get big fast business, it's
very easy to raise money. There's lots
of capitalists that are looking for
places to put their money. And so you
use that money to try to solve problems,
even if it's a very expensive way of
solving them. But in an organic growth
company, you're trying to survive.
You're just trying to stay around for as
long as you possibly can. So you um you
try to be frugal and cheap about
everything that you do. Similarly, when
you're trying to get big fast, you put
up little signs all over the office that
say move fast and break break stuff. And
uh and the idea is to make lots of
mistakes and it doesn't matter. You got
to be moving fast. You can't be scared
in any way. You just got to be running
down the hill. Uh with an organic growth
business, those mistakes can kill you.
And when they kill you, you don't have
any way to come back. you we the thing
that scared us at Fog Creek all all the
time is that if we ran out of money in
the bank we would have to close. We did
not have a source of a million dollars
to stick into the business to survive
one more month. Um so you're much much
more careful in an organic growth
business because you have to be because
this is your only business. And that
means that the get big fast business you
have a tiny teeny weeny in very very
very small chance of of it becoming a
$10 billion business. And I just made up
the number 10 billion, but you know,
really really big business. And if you
consider that um you know, of all the Y
Combinator, let's say you all apply to Y
Combinator and you all get in, I'm sure
that's not in the cards. Um you know,
two of you actually of all the people in
this room that apply to Y Cominator and
the 60 70 80 I don't know how many get
in. You know, maybe two or three of them
have a chance of being a $10 billion
business and that's being really really
optimistic. It's actually less than
that. Uh so so your chances of of you of
of making a $10 bit$10 billion dollar
business this way by starting out trying
to get big fast are um vanishingly small
I'm afraid and some people like those
odds so good for them. Some people
incidentally all the people that make
$10 billion couldn't care less. They're
doing it because they're scratching an
itch. They're trying to solve some
problem that they have and they're
monomomaniacally focused on that. It's
never because they want to make 10 $10
million. Now, the um with an organic
growth company though, if you're just
reasonably smart and you pay attention
and you never make a terrible mistake,
then you're going to make a nice $10
million business and the number means 10
million means 10 million in revenue a
year and at some point that's just going
to be a million to operate it and 9
million that can go in your pocket if
you own it. And you have a really good
chance of being able to build that in
five to 10 years in an organic growth
business. It's just not that hard.
There's a lot of businesses like that.
When I I used to um write a column for
Inc. magazine and I always wanted to
write something about VCs and um my
editor always said nobody nobody no
entrepreneur takes money from VCs. It
seem it's such a narrow world of people
that get investments from VCs. It's such
a tiny sliver of entrepreneurship that
if we write about that in our pages of
our magazine we get hate mail because
nobody cares doesn't apply to their
business. There's millions of businesses
out there uh that are that are making
somebody you know around a million
dollars. Um so again that's those are
the two models. Are you bootstrapping?
are you taking VC? And um again there
are millions of organic growth companies
and there are very very small number of
get big fast companies. I wrote a few
hundred but that's like the entire
universe of companies uh you know in the
world. There's there's like one every
decade or so from Silicon
Valley. Um and not being able to decide
is what's really going to kill you. So
um let me um see if I can sort of finish
a little bit of the story uh about about
Fog Creek and Stack Exchange. a stack
exchange. Um, again, we we decided that
it was a uh land grab uh type of
business and um we spent a few years
working on it. Uh just everybody working
from home and and being frugal and all
that kind of stuff just to see where we
could get. Now, one thing I don't know
if anybody mentioned here, but if you
are actually trying to raise money,
you're always delaying as much as
possible the actual raising of money
because as your company becomes more and
more valuable over time, let's say your
company now is worth a million dollars,
but next year it's going to be worth $10
million. In order, if you sell shares,
you're actually going to have to sell
fewer shares to get the same amount of
cash into your bank account. So, at any
given time, you always want to be
raising the minimum amount of money you
need to barely survive. uh as a general
general rule. Um and if you can delay
the the the raising of money the very
very first time uh then uh your your
life is uh much better because you have
to dilute less when you want to raise
money and it's easier to raise money
when you have a nice story about how
successful you've been um on your own.
So Stack Exchange was sort of
technically bootstrapped for two years.
It was called Stack Overflow then and
there were only three people working on
it full-time and an awful lot of people
from our community volunteering and
helping out, but it was really three
full-timers that were working mostly
without pay um from home. We built the
servers we Jeff Atwood built the servers
himself with his hands uh and he
optimized them to make them really
really fast. He put in a lot of RAM and
he got really good SSD drives and all
that kind of stuff. We used a compiled
language which is unheard of which
actually allowed us to um run this
gigantic site on a very small number of
web servers. It was remarkably small. I
mean for the longest time we had like
three boxes on on on the rack. Um and
now um uh we don't but I think we could
probably fit on one rack um for for um
Stack Exchange right now which is a top
100 website in terms of traffic. So very
uh um you know we were sort of we we we
worked on trying to save money on the
servers. Um we were reasonably frugal.
People were working from home. There was
no office. Um but we realized after a
couple years that this was a get big
fast business. And I I'll tell you why
if it's not obvious. With a question and
answer website there are network there
are very strong network effects. You go
to the site where you're most likely to
get an answer. And we dominate for
programmers and pretty much anything
related to programmers, including system
administrators and SQL administrators
and SQL, you know, SQL query writers and
and and all those things that are close
to programmers. We dominate in math. We
have two math sites, the research and
the non-ressearch. Uh and um and we have
about 90 categories where we don't quite
dominate in in in most of them. Meaning
somewhere else there's another website
out there that's a better place to get
answers to your questions about uh
whatever it may be. So, um, a good
example of that is Apple. We have
apple.stackchange.com. It's a pretty
good site. I would guesstimate that it
has maybe 20% of the market for
questions and answers about Apple
products. It's a much better site, but
there is more traffic on Apple's own
site and on other forums about Apple. So
that's the that's the land grab that
we're trying to get because none of
those other sites yet have the magical
upvote down vote badges, karma,
reputation, all the comments, all the
nice stuff that uh Stack Exchange has
that makes it work as a Q&A platform.
And it's not like people can't figure
this out. And there's not a single
person that builds a Q&A site anymore
that doesn't have an up vote and a down
vote button. That's not so hard to
figure out. So that's the land grab is
we need to take all the traffic away. We
know we can take traffic away from an
old boring forum because those suck and
it's a terrible place to get your
questions answered. Um and and and what
we have is 10 times better than that and
we can displace those. But if somebody
else builds a stack exchange kind of
work alike with with up votes and down
votes in some category, let's say
physical anthropology that we don't have
a site in, then they're going to take
that market and they're going to have uh
the network effects. So, this is
obviously a land grab and we needed to
move as fast as absolutely possible to
capture as much as possible of this
territory before it got divided up um by
other people and that's why we raised
that's why we raised money. But this
time when we were raising money, it was
like falling off a log. It was the
easiest thing in the world. I only
talked to VCs that I actually wanted to
invest in the company. I didn't go
knocking on every single door. I spent
exactly two weeks uh on the fundraising
and then it was done. I that's all
that's all it took. And I was able to
raise from my number one choice of VC
which was Union Square Ventures. Um uh
like I say it took about two weeks to
put together the deal. And it was very
very easy and that was because of you
know 10 years of work building Fog Creek
and getting a reputation and two years
of work building Stack Exchange and
getting all that momentum. So, anything
you can do to boot bootstrap, anything
you can do to defer the moment where you
need to go raise some money from
somebody so that you're in a better
position is going to make it so much
easier to raise money under under under
far better terms. Um, that that's really
really worth doing. Um, the other uh the
other um part of that story actually is
uh I have four minutes left. Okay. The
other part of that story is another
product that Faul Creek started doing.
Now, I had to move over to Stack
Exchange. Stack Exchange is now 75
employees and we just we're building a
30,000 foot office in Manhattan which
with the kitchen and everything. It's
going to be um fancy and expensive and
it's going to cost us like it's going to
cost like $5 million to build out but
the landlord's paying some of that. Um
so we're doing like these amazing big
things uh at Stack Exchange. Um we have
a lot of employees. We have an office in
Denver. We have an office in London. Uh
we have um like I said something you
know maybe let's say 50 million global
users if you allow me to double count
some of them.
Uh, and we're top 100 websites. So, that
took a lot of work. I became CEO
eventually of Stack Exchange, and that
became a full-time job. And it turns out
you can't be CEO of two companies at
once because of the IP problem. If you
invent something, it's, you know, both
companies would claim to own it. So, um,
so I only work for Stack Exchange,
although I'm still on the board of of
Fog Creek, and I dip my toes in there
every once in a while. And what they
started working on at Fog Creek, Fog
Creek, by the way, is now, let's say, 45
employees. And it's a cash machine that
just because Fog Bugs is like a minced
money every month. And um we're kind of
like a kibbutz. And so at the end of the
year in July, we take all the profit and
divide it up among the employees based
on seniority. So whatever money is left
in the business at the end of the year
goes to the employees depending on how
long they've been there. Um we don't
dividend it out to shareholders. Um we
just pay it in in bonuses to the
employees. So um if you've been a Faul
Creek employee for several years, you're
you're probably doubling your salary on
that on that profit share. um from um so
that's just the thing that mints cash
because we're not really um it's not
that you know we keep selling the the
product uh uh you know long after we've
written it uh although we are still
working on that one um we recently
fogreak launched a new product called
Trello this launched about a year ago
and that's actually a get big fast land
grab business as well Trello is online
kind of organization software t re l go
check it out it's really awesome and in
the years since we launched we went from
zero to I think about 800,000 uh users
and it's doing great. It's a it needs a
dev team of about 10 people. We're we
have to work on every stupid mobile
platform under the sun. So, we got
somebody working on iPhone and somebody
working on Android and somebody working
on Windows Surface and uh uh no, that
was my idea. And uh and and the web app
and uh and adding new features all the
time. And we don't actually understand
exactly how we're going to make money
off of Trello. We're not quite sure
about that because we thought free was a
really good price if we wanted to reduce
friction so we could get big really
really fast and get all those wonderful
network effects and have this massive
land grab where Trello takes over the
world of project management. Um, and
eventually uh you know as everybody here
has said we'll figure out some way to
make money on that. In the meantime, I
got 10 employees working on that and a
rack full of servers that I got to add a
new server to every couple of weeks. And
uh that costs money, but we have this
lovely cash cow of fog bugs that's sort
of spewing out extra money. So, we asked
the shareholders of Fog Creek, which is
the employees, we said, "Hey, can we use
your bonus that we would have paid you
in profit share, and just plow that back
into Trello, and you're never going to
see it again." And they said, "Yes." And
uh uh and we didn't have to go go to a
VC, and we didn't have to go to an
outside VC. And by the time if we ever
get to the point where we just need a
whole data center in Oregon somewhere in
order to run um Trello, which will
happen, uh and we do need VC at that
point. uh at that point we're going in
with traction with an established team
with a product that's already proven
itself and you can take uh an investment
on very very good terms even if you want
to and so at that point I imagine uh you
wouldn't give up any control of the
company uh even now I think if we raised
money we wouldn't give up any control
you'd probably still continue to have an
absolute control of the board at that
stage um and you wouldn't take very much
dilution because uh because the
valuation would be so high even though
we don't actually make any money so I'm
sort of out of time But this is the
important part of what I've been trying
to spew here at about a million words
per minute. This is normally a two-hour
speech. Uh you have to decide if you're
going to be a slow growth company or get
big fast company because anytime you try
to straddle uh those two lines, painful
things happen to you. Um, I I'm
traumatized. Absolutely traumatized
because Juno Online services, where I
worked for years, was actually competing
against AOL. And AOL was just going all
out, sending everybody these damn floppy
discs so that everybody would sign up
for AOL because it was a land grab.
There was a land grab going on. And AOL
had instant messenger. And instant
messenger had network effects. And AOL
had lockin because once you had your AOL
email address, you never wanted to move
to somewhere else because you'd have to
tell 400 people about your new email
address. So AOL was building this
remarkable land grab business with all
kinds of network effects and lock in and
stuff like that. And Juno had every
single one of those things but was kind
of growing in a more bootstrappy way
because they were afraid to spend the
money on the little stupid little floppy
discs. And now Juno is a dialup ISP and
I don't know even know what AOL is
anymore. Um
but but for a while AOL was a lot
bigger. So, I was traumatized by that
kind of failure to commit to one mode of
bootstrapping or the other mode of
getting really big fast. And and I think
you should decide what you want to do.
You can really control your own destiny
if you're willing to take a few more
years and bootstrap with a small kind of
reliable business and use that to build
your next stage uh which is your
Facebook Netscape group on for
squirrels. Thank you very much.