Title: How to Find the Right Co-founder
Video ID: prKi3-rUPHc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=prKi3-rUPHc
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2021-03-25T23:56:30Z
Duration: PT28M33S
Views: 143341
Likes: 2686
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 788

Description:
In this Startup School lecture, YC Partner Harj Taggar shares advice on how to find the right co-founder for your startup.

Transcript and lecture slides here: https://www.ycombinator.com/library/8h-how-to-find-the-right-co-founder

This lecture is part of YC's Startup School, a free online program and global community of founders. Register and join the community at https://www.startupschool.org/

Chapters (Powered by https://bit.ly/chapterme-yc) - 
00:00 Introduction
0:25 Why have a co-founder 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
Hi, I'm Hager and I'm partner at Y
Combinator and today I'm going to be
talking about what I think is arguably
the most important part of starting a
company which is finding the right
co-founder. So, let's start by talking
about why should you have a co-founder
at all. Well, I think there's three main
reasons you really want a co-founder
when you're starting a company. The
first is productivity. You can get a lot
more work done if you have someone to
divide the work up with. And you can get
much better work done if you have a
co-founder who maybe has complimentary
skills so they can do things that you
can't. And there's someone you enjoy
discussing ideas with. So you can
brainstorm and come up with better ideas
than you could alone or help have
someone to talk you out of potentially
bad ideas. So you get a lot of uplift in
just the amount and quality of work you
can do with a co-founder. The second
reason is moral support. Startups are an
incredibly intense and taxing journey.
And it's great to have someone you can
lean on for support during the tough
times. And what I've noticed about the
best co-founder relationships is they
have this dynamic where both co-founders
kind of balance each other out. So, if
one founder is having a bad day, they're
feeling a little down, despondent, and
they've become a little pessimistic and
feel like the startup's about to die,
the other co-founder can just help bring
them up a little bit um and keep them
going, keep them motivated. Uh and vice
versa. Sometimes you get too carried
away. You sign a customer and you think
you're guaranteed to IPO and you could
use someone to just ground you and bring
you back to uh reality a little bit. And
so that's where I kind of find the best
co-ounding relationships can help kind
of even out some of the highs and lows
of the emotional roller coaster that is
a startup. And while you can get sort of
productivity increased by hiring people
or bringing on contractors, you don't
get that same emotional support that you
do from a co-founder because ultimately
anyone who's working for you. You're the
boss and they're not as invested in the
success of the startup as you are. And
you can't really be as open or honest
with them about the company as you can
be with a pit. And that's what you get
from a co-founder.
The final reason I'd say to have a
co-founder is pattern matching to
success. If you look at a list of the
most successful startups in history,
think of Apple, Facebook, Google,
Microsoft, they all had co-founders when
they started. And now I think sometimes
people forget this point because when
you think of these great iconic
companies, you associate them with a
single person, usually the CEO who's
over time risen to become prominent and
famous and a bit of celebrity. So you
know when you think of Apple, you think
of Steve Jobs. When you think of
Microsoft, Bill Gates, um you think of
Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, right? And I
think it's completely true that over
time and we're talking at this point
decades because that's how long uh
successful startups are around for uh
over that time period it's pretty common
for one person to kind of really drive
the company become the figurehead for it
and stick out the company for a long
long period of time and that's why I
remember those people but we're talking
about the earlier stages of starting a
company and in those days all of these
founders had co-founders that they lent
on for all the reasons I just mentioned.
So, I think it's always important to
remember that when you're starting a
company and wondering whether you should
have a co-founder or not.
Okay. So, hopefully I've convinced you
that you really do want a co-founder
when you're starting a company. But what
if you're really keen to get started on
a company right now and you don't have a
co-founder that's immediately available
or someone that you can bring on board?
Should you wait to get a great
co-founder before you start a company or
should you just go ahead and get
started? Well, I think the default
answer is that you should wait um
because of all the reasons I just
mentioned, all the benefits that you get
from having a co-founder. But why
cominator has funded single founders and
we have done so successfully. So I've
noticed that there are some exceptions
to this rule and they tend to follow a
particular pattern and that pattern is
that the single founder someone starting
company by themselves has two things
that are true. So one is they have an
idea that they have incredibly high
conviction about either because they're
solving a personal problem for
themselves. So they really know solution
is necessary. Um or they're a domain
expert. They're working in a field where
they know for sure that sort of a
technology that's missing who the
customers might be. So the result of
that is they have such conviction in the
idea that they don't need a co-founder
to convince them that this is a good
idea to get started on. Like they're
they're ready to go.
The second condition is that those
single founders, they're able to make
progress on that idea without a
co-founder in the short term at least.
And that almost always means that
they're technical or at least technical
enough to be able to build the first
version of the product so they can show
it to potential investors or maybe even
to potential co-founders who may want to
join the company. And that second point
is something I noticed that the best
single founders are also able to do is
not only are they tremendously
productive in building product and
talking to users themselves, they're
also able to run a great background
search and keep their four co-founders
and keep their eyes open and if the
opportunity arises, bring on a great
co-founder. And I think the best example
I can think of here would be Drew Haps
in the Dropbox. So Drew applied to Y
cominator way way back now in 2007.
He had a really solid idea for building
Dropbox because he'd already felt the
pain of losing his own files. So he knew
for sure uh there was a better solution
to build. But he didn't have a
co-founder. And so Paul Graham, the Y
cominator founder, messaged him back
saying, "We love your application.
You're great. The idea is great, but we
really won't fund you without a
co-founder. So come back to us when you
have one." and Drew kind of went away
continued building uh the Dropbox
prototype while also looking for
co-founders and found Arash who would be
uh later the Dropbox CTO and his
co-founder uh and he applied again and
worked on me to fund him and now Dropbox
is obviously tremendously successful
company. So, that's kind of what I' I'd
ask you to bear in mind is if you're
really keen to get a start right now,
but you don't have a co-founder, ask
yourself like, do you have absolute high
conviction in this idea? You know for
sure that this is the idea that you want
to work on, there's no other ideas um
that you'd be open to. And can you
really make progress um without having a
co-founder? Um and if those things are
true, sure, go ahead and give it a give
it a shot. But if not, I'd really
suggest you wait until you do have a
co-founder to start a company.
So, when you're thinking about bringing
on a co-founder, what should you be
looking for in them? Well, I actually
think the single most important thing to
know about someone before you start a
company with them is how do they handle
stress?
Second most important is how well are
they going to help you handle stress.
And the reason I say that is startups
are incredibly stressful uh intense
experience as I mentioned before and you
know a great co-founder should be able
to support you through those and help
you through those because if you're
determined and motivated and enjoy
working together you'll keep working on
this startup for a long period of time
and that's usually what it takes to
build a really successful company. So,
you really don't want to start a company
with someone that you don't know
particularly well because even if you've
spent time with them in social events or
you've hung out together a little bit,
you don't really have insight into how
they're going to respond to pressure and
stress and are they someone that's going
to stick around when things are tough?
Um, and are they someone that's going to
help you want to stick around when
things are tough? So the best people to
start companies with are always people
that you've got some set of personal
experiences where you kind of know their
character and how they're going to
respond to those tough situations. Um uh
and that usually means there's someone
that a close friend or someone that
you've worked with um uh under sort of
stressful uh conditions. So I'd
certainly recommend that you be on the
lookout and think about that when you're
considering co-founders. The second
thing I think you really want to look
for is understanding the goals and
values someone has for starting a
company or wanting to do do a startup.
And honestly, I think when I was
younger, I used to think of goals and
values as being fuzzy terms. They didn't
mean too much. But over time, I've
realized really what they mean is
understanding the motivations someone
has for doing what they do. And in this
context, I think it's really important
to talk with someone, even if you know
them very well, about why do they want
to do a startup? What are they hoping
for? And the kinds of things that can
come out are avoiding
conflicting goals, right? So for
example, let's say that you really want
to build a high growth, highintensity,
high-risk startup and you want to push
forward. You want to raise venture
capital. You want to hire a bunch of
people. You want to just really go for
it and your goal is to take the company
public and you're okay kind of taking
lots of risks along the way to get
there. That's a totally fine set of
motivations. It's a very common set of
motivations for startup founders. Um,
but let's say your co-founder prefers to
take kind of a slow and steady approach.
Maybe they're more motivated by building
great software for a small group of
people and they would be totally fine if
you just made enough revenue to pay
yourselves good salaries and just screw
a little bit every year. Um, that's also
a completely fine set of motivations for
wanting to start a company, but the two
motivations there aren't compatible with
each other and they'll lead to
inevitable conflict. So
what I'd suggest is make sure that you
have this conversation and it's not a
perfect predictor because people's goals
and ambitions for a startup change over
time. I've seen people start companies
because honestly they just wanted to get
rich and their hope was that they were
able to sell the company in 2 to 3 years
for a good amount to a bigger company.
Um but they got two to three years into
the company and they loved it so much
they got so excited by the challenge
that they kept working on it and they're
still working on it a decade later. So
that's totally fine. I'm not saying that
having this conversation means you're
going to know for sure whether your
goals and values are aligned over the
next decade, which is again how long it
usually takes if a startup is
successful. But at least having the
conversation gives you a better chance
of have finding a co-founder who you're
aligned with around highle important
stuff. Now I think you're probably
wondering I'm talking about what you
should look for in co-founders and I
haven't mentioned kind of the obvious
thing which is what skills do they have?
So it's obviously really important to
have a co-founder who has the right set
of skills to help you grow the company.
And usually that means someone who's got
complimentary set of skills to you,
right? So if you're really great at
sales, talking to users, getting
customers, ideally you'd have a
co-founder who's really great at
building product and writing code and
building software because the two of you
can divide and conquer and get a lot
done. Um,
while I do think that's really
important, I don't think it's what you
should overly fixate on, right? So, more
important than anything is just working
with someone that you like working with
and you trust. And so, if sort of the
person who best fits that description
doesn't necessarily have the perfect set
of complimentary skills to yours, I
think that's fine. You should still
bring them on as a co-founder and then
you can start hiring people assuming you
can make enough progress in the company
to get investment. you can hire people
to kind of fill in the skills gaps and
that's okay. Um, another point I just
make on this is when you are trying to
decide if someone's got complimentary
skills to you, don't go too much into
the details of how well do their skills
map onto the specific idea you're
working on right now. So a common
example of the SBC sometimes is
someone's considering bringing on a
technical co-founder and they want to
build a iPhone app but the co-founder
even though they know them, they trust
them, they've worked with them before,
that co-founder isn't necessarily an
iPhone app developer, they haven't built
iPhone apps in the past. Um that's not a
reason to rule someone out as a
co-founder, right? What does matter is
that they're willing to learn what they
need to learn. So if they're not an
iPhone developer, they're willing to
learn how to do that. And particularly,
they're willing to learn things that
maybe aren't glamorous. Like the
startups are often just a grind of doing
a lot of sort of boring grunt work to
get the thing going. And so long as you
have a co-founder who's okay with that,
um it's totally fine if they don't have
the perfect set of skill sets. So don't
rule someone out who's potentially a
great co-founder because they don't sort
of have this checklist of specific
skills you're looking for. But do make
sure you count them in if it's someone
that you trust, you like working with,
and you've got a good sense of how
they're going to handle the stress and
pressure of the startup journey.
So, where should you look for to find
co-founders? Well, the answer here is a
little obvious. It's to start with the
people you already know. So, ideally,
your friends and colleagues. And
kind of ironically, the best times to
find a co-founder are when you're not
actually necessarily looking for a
co-founder to start a company with right
now. And what I mean by that is if I
were kind of giving myself advice 101 15
years ago, um what I would say is rather
than sort of trying to pick a startup
idea and go and find co-founders to work
on with it, I would suggest that I just
look for people to do projects with.
Right? So, if you're in school, look
around, see who's in your class, who's
in school, and like identify people that
you think would be cool to work on a
project with. And this project doesn't
have to be a take over the world uh idea
or company. It just has to be something
you find interesting. Like maybe you're
into games and you want to build a cool
game together. Um, like the thing that's
awesome about projects is that it's much
less scarier and asking for a far lower
commitment if you ask someone to work on
a project with you than it is to go
straight into, hey, let's start a
company together, right? So, you have
sort of a a higher chance of people
saying yes if you ask them for this. And
the other thing that's great about
projects is you can work on different
projects with different people and you
can start developing a taste for who do
you work well with? What kinds of
personalities? Like what kinds of skills
are you actually good at as opposed to
what you might think you're good at? And
so what kind of complimentary skills
might you look for in a co-founder? And
again, being in school for college is a
really ideal time for this because
you're surrounded by lots of people who
you usually have a decent chunk of spare
time. And so you can start getting
together to work on things that you
think are fun. And again, kind of
ironically, although this is I'm
suggesting you don't try and start a
startup, um projects that you work on in
your spare time, often tend to be some
of the greatest sources for actually
finding great startup ideas and building
huge companies. You know, Facebook's an
obvious example, something that started
out as a project while Mark Zuckerberg
was an undergrad at Harvard and now it's
turned into one of the biggest companies
in the world. But that's not why I'm
suggesting you do this. I'm suggesting
you kind of look for people to work on
projects with because that's a great way
for you to get a sense of what kind of
person do you enjoy working with and
what specific type of personality do you
work well with. And this advice also
applies if you're not in college or
school. Maybe you're um if you're
working at a company, like look at your
co-workers. Like keep a list of people
that you think are particularly smart,
particularly capable, who impresses you
and start getting to know them better
and ask them if they're up for working
on things in the evenings or weekends.
Like that's the kind of personality that
or the kind of person who's interested
in working on evening and weekends,
weekend projects is the kind of person
that's likely to make a great
co-founder. I actually remember years
ago at uh Y Com startup school when it
was an inerson physical event we had
Phil Libin the founder of Evernote there
and he kind of gave a a somewhat extreme
version of this advice which was uh that
he sort of years and years before he
started a company knew that he wanted to
start a company someday and so he would
only make friends with people that he
thought could someday be a co-founder
and now while I think that advice is
maybe a little bit extreme if you don't
just want to be around um uh people who
might be co-founders, there is truth to
it, right? So, I think this is kind of
the thing where if you make this sort of
a conscious effort well before you start
a company, uh it will probably be the
best bet for finding a great co-founder.
But let's say you do know for sure that
you want to start a company and you're
kind of ready to go again right now.
Like, how do you start finding
co-founders? Well, again, you start in
the same place. You start with people
that you know. And what I've noticed is
an an issue people run into here is that
they can be a really reluctant to just
ask people they know to start a company
with them. And that kind of it's all
kind of reasons there. Like maybe you're
worried about how your relationship will
change. Like maybe um you don't sort of
value the personal relationship more
than the the risks of of working with
someone. And those are fair concerns,
but it's not the right optimization for
starting a company. Like, you have to
make the ask. So, what I'd suggest is a
pretty simple algorithm here for finding
co-founders. It's make a list of the
people that you know, you're closest to
that you think would be great
co-founders and start from top to bottom
and ask every single person on there to
go grab coffee and talk to them and ask
them if they'll start a co company with
you and be your co-founder. And if they
say no, that's totally fine. that you
understand, but like who would they
start a company with? And make it very
specific. Ask them if you were starting
a company, who would be sort of your top
three or four co-founders that you want
to try and convince to work with you?
And ask them for an introduction to each
of those people. So, your list keeps
growing. Now, you ask the people you
know, if they say no, you at least get
some more ideas for names. Um, and then
you meet with those people and you ask
them, and you similarly repeat repeat
the same algorithm. um ask them if
they'd be interested in being a
co-founder with you or not. And if they
say no, ask them who they try and
recruit. And so this way you start
growing the tree of potential
co-founders beyond those people you
immediately know, but at least they're
still connected by people that you do
know. And so they're not just sort of
completely random strangers. The final
bit of advice I'd say for where to look
is
go out and try and meet people that just
have similar interests to you. Right?
So, this kind of sounds a little bit
just like how to have a social life, but
um this is essentially what finding
co-founders reduces to. So, if you're an
engineer, um attend like developer
meetups or work on open source projects
um uh or go to hackathons like do things
where other engineers and builders are
hanging out and you'll likely find some
leads. And even if you're not technical,
if you're interested in those things,
you should totally attend those kinds of
events, too. But maybe you also just
attend or find people who are interested
in the kinds of things you're interested
in. Maybe you're interested in economics
and finance and that's kind of the pool
of things uh or that's a pool of
interest where you think you'll find a
startup idea. Well, make a real effort
to go out and meet people who have
similar interests. I mean, and in these
co times, there's lots of online groups
and communities that you can join. But
even in regular times, there's always
ways to find people have similar
interests for you. And if you're
consciously on the lookout for people
who might make co-founders, you have a
high chance of finding someone who could
be a good fit.
So once you found a potential
co-founder, how do you test out and know
for sure that you both want to start a
company together before making kind of a
final commitment? Well, it's not a
perfect process and at some point you
just kind of have to make the leap and
uh hope that it will work out. But one
way to derisk it is to allocate a chunk
of time where you agree to kind of work
together and uh set yourself a deadline
by which time you want to have ideally
like a MVP or a prototype of something
built or you at least want to have gone
out and tried it out pitching some
customers and convincing them to pay you
if you did build a particular product.
These are all the things you'd usually
do when you're signing up with a new
company or testing out a new idea
anyhow. And do that together and agree
that you know at the sort of end of the
time that you've set aside that you'll
both have an honest conversation decide
do we both enjoy working together on
this? Um and if so great let's go ahead
and make the lead and if not be honest
and say hey let's go our own separate
ways. So making that a little bit more
tangible. uh if you both have you know
no other commitments you know which is
pretty uncommon but sometimes happens if
say you both graduated college and you
didn't go and get a job because you want
to start a company then I'd say treat
this like your full-time job right like
say that hey we're going to set aside uh
a month or 3 months and uh let's just
sort of pick a idea we're excited about
and get as much progress made as we can
on building the first version of it and
going out and signing customers And uh
even if you can't do that full-time
because you have other commitments, then
do it on evenings and weekends, right?
But you'll have to sacrifice some amount
of time doing other things in order to
sort of actually spend time working
together. But the more time, so more
hours you can accumulate of working
together on the idea, um the better a
sense you'll have for sure if you want
to start a company or not. Right? So
once you've kind of done that um let's
say you've decided that hey we do want
to start the company uh and we want to
be co-founders then I think there's two
important points you want to make sure
that you're in agreement on uh the first
is the equity split right like who owns
how much of the company now I think the
way to think about this is your sort of
default equity allocation should really
be 50/50 um That's where you want to
start from, right? Because assuming that
nothing's been built yet, you're at the
earlier stages of the company. Um,
you're both going to make sort of equal
contributions. You both want to be
equally motivated to work super hard in
the company and all the work is years
and years ahead of you. So, there's not
really too much reason to deviate from a
particular equity spit early on.
However, we have seen different equity
arrangements and they have been
successful. And so I kind of think the
underlying thing that you're solving for
here is making sure that both of you are
happy with what the equity arrangement
is and will be motivated to keep working
on the company for a long period of
time. Right? And so again, usually that
means 50/50. But let's just say that you
have been working on the company for a
little bit longer or you take you
derisked it somehow by yourself and
you're bringing on what you commonly
call a later stage co-founder then
sometimes deviating from 50/50 might
make sense but again the thing I would
really encourage you to do is not
optimize the short term right so just
because you made a little bit of
progress on the idea by yourself and you
have a great co-founder um and you're
sort of thinking hey maybe I should take
70% and give them 30%
because you've made progress in the last
6 months. I would encourage you not to
do that. Startups are a really long-term
game and you want to you win by making
the best decision in the long term,
right? So, if you have a great potential
co-founder and even though you made a
little bit of progress on the company
yourself, if you know that they won't be
allin and fully committed to the success
of the company unless they're a 50/50
partner, you should do that. um you
should make them equity um partner so
that you can keep them as motivated and
get as much out of them as possible.
The second thing I think you really want
to decide is who's the CEO. Now this can
sometimes be an uncomfortable
conversation.
Um and to be honest, it's actually I
think a bit of a red flag if it is an
uncomfortable conversation. And so
as far as the actual title itself goes,
early on in a startup when it's just two
or three co-founders, in terms of how it
impacts your dayto-day and how you
divide up responsibilities, the title
doesn't actually matter. Like early on,
you're all going to be doing a little
bit of everything. There's like plenty
of like unglamorous grunt work to go
around and just because you have the CEO
title doesn't mean you get to absone
from that, right? So practically it
doesn't matter like um uh in terms of
who does what. Uh one exception to that
might be you know if uh you need to be
doing sales um it usually might be good
if the CEO is a person or whoever has a
CEO title is a person talking to
customers and and users and convincing
them because they might feel a little
bit more flattered if the CEO um is
pitching them. And this kind of gets to
the point of where really the only
impact the CEO title has and that is
externally and I would say specifically
for investors. So investors care about
seeing that there is sort of a clear
leader and a clear final decision maker
or a tiebreaker and that person should
be the CEO. So when you're pitching
investors it's usually better for
whoever is sort of do does most of the
talking, whoever is going to be leading
those conversations that that person is
the CEO. And now where you run into
problems and a very very common source
of co-founder friction we see at white
cominator is where two people really
want to be the CEO right and this can
sort of we can see this in Y cominator
interviews where you end up with two
people who kind of talk over each other
they interrupt each other they kind of
look at each other with a little bit of
contempt when the other person's
answering these are all really really
bad signs right so be honest with
yourselves if you think it's really
important to you to be the CEO and you
both feel that way, you're not good
co-founders for each other. So, just
avoid all that pain and heartache and
don't start a company together. You
ideally want to start a company with
someone uh who doesn't care about that
stuff if you do or you're both
indifferent to it and you're fine
picking whoever you feel is best suited
to the role for now, even if that
changes sometime in the future. So,
let's kind of wrap up everything we've
talked about. Once you're sure you want
a co-founder, which I hope I've
convinced you you do, um once you run
the process to find some good candidates
to be a co-founder and you've identified
someone that you really do want to start
a company with because you spend a
little bit of time working on projects
together and testing each other out, so
to speak, um then you have the
conversations around what's the equity
split and who's going to be the CEO. Now
you're ready to formalize things. And
formalizing really means, you know, the
legal act of incorporating a company.
Um, setting up a vesting agreement. This
is really important. Vesting means that
the shares in the company, you don't all
get them at once. They vest over a
period of time. And there's very
standard templates and documents for
this that you should really ensure that
that you have in place. Um, and then
you're pretty much good to go. and you
know the when exactly should you sort of
leap from hey we're hanging out working
together to hey okay let's like do some
paperwork um not a perfect answer for
that but it's just kind of a gut feel
like once you're like once you've made
the commitment to yourself and each
other that we are going to make a real
go of trying to build a company together
that that's kind of the trigger for when
you start making things real by getting
to the legal corporation and hip club
done so that's all the advice I have for
how to think about finding the right
co-founder and how to make it happen.
Uh, I hope that helps and good luck.