Title: The AI Agent Economy Is Here
Video ID: Q8wVMdwhlh4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8wVMdwhlh4
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-02-21T15:00:42Z
Duration: PT23M22S
Views: 154595
Likes: 3247
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 689

Description:
With the takeoff of OpenClaw and MoltBook, a new agent-driven economy is taking shape. In this episode of the Lightcone, the hosts take a look at the explosive growth of AI dev tools and whether the time has come for builders to make something agents want.

Chapters:
00:00 - Intro
02:12 - No human involvement is changing the experience
04:55 - Does YC need to change its motto? 
07:48 - Email tools and agent infrastructure
09:36 - Agent driven documentation
13:00 - Swarm intelligence
15:36 - Cont

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Welcome to another episode of The Light
Cone. Things are a bit different around
here. For one thing, Claude Code has
totally taken over my life. And if Jared
is any indication, I think Open Claw
maybe has taken over his. I've been
really addicted to this new site called
Multibook, where people have unleashed
their AIs to interact in the first-ever
AI agent-only online community. I am
here impersonating my [music] personal
Open Claw instance right here. Okay. I
can't do this, guys. We got to take this
off.
Okay, we've gotten that out of the way.
I mean, some crazy stuff is happening
right now. I have, you know,
non-technical CEO friends who are going
all in on Open Claw. They're automating
entire parts of their businesses
entirely using Open Claw right now,
which is totally insane. Simultaneous to
that, you have, you know, product and
former engineering CEOs, kind of like
myself. It's like I hadn't written code
in 10 years. And then now I'm up till
2:00 3:00 a.m. every single night
running four conductor simultaneous
workers with Claude Code. So, you know,
there's sort of this explosion in
model capability. You know, we've been
talking about this for several years,
but then it feels like it's here. Like
AGI is literally actually here. And you
know, we're sort of at the thin edge of
the wedge. Like everyone now kind of
knows like one or two people who have
gone full cyberpsychosis, and I'm one of
those people now. What's happening,
guys? Like, I mean, you're saying
you're, you know, all in on Multibook.
What, you know, what's going on?
>> Yeah, I feel like your real feel the AGI
moment, Gary, was like getting Claude
Code to build basically an entire
startup for you, like replicating years
of work of your previous startup in like
2 weeks, which is like insane. And I had
a similar feel to AGI moment just
reading Multibook, just reading the AI
talking to each other and interacting
like in their own world with no or
minimal human involvement. It just
really opened my eyes to what the next
few years could look like when the
agents are unleashed and go on about
their lives without us. Yeah, I think
the no human involvement is the big
piece. Like if you if you think back a
year ago, we were talking about Cursor
versus Windsurf, and like that product
experience was essentially like advanced
auto complete, arguably. And now clearly
what's going with code code is like the
people just trust the agents to make
decisions for them. Like it's like the
experience is like and like you're
talking about it's like four or five
different agents going at the same time
and you're switching between them, but
you're not actually micro managing them
anymore, which means the agents are
going out there like choosing things,
which you know, sort of an interesting,
unexpected application of that is like
they can go out and choose to post their
own content on a site like Multibook.
But then an interesting thing for
builders is the agents are going to go
out and choose tools to use to build
things, which is going to essentially
create a whole economy of agents they
picking and choosing dev tools or maybe
other like products or goods and
services, who knows, but it it will
essentially have this whole agent
economy going on in parallel to the
human economy. I think back in the
old days, old days before all of this,
dev tools were chosen more from
developers talking to each other or uh
Stack Overflow.
Unbelievable, right? or GitHub repos
that were done by a human, but the
go-to-market for dev tools, I think is
dramatically shifting. I think for
couple of things. One, as you noted with
the uh cyber psychosis, suddenly the
market of developers has increased from
just 20 million or so developers that
are trained in computer science to now
anyone in the world could be one.
>> be hundreds of millions of people now.
Plus all of their agents who are all
acting like semi-independently, like
Harri was saying. And then compound it
with the agents, who then are sort of
the oracle telling you what the best
tool is.
And we are actually seeing some of those
trends with the growth of YC companies,
dev tool companies, that are doing
really well because of this of all these
trends. Maybe we should talk about
those. And why is that? I mean, one that
springs to mind, it's like a uh
statistic that a friend of ours, Yuri
Sakalov, had mentioned to me a while
ago. It's just like then if you look at
like the number of databases being
created over like simple database,
Postgres databases, over like the last
12 months, and the number has just
exploded. Um and that's because it's all
people vibe coding and building apps,
and the agents going out choosing like a
database tool. And they get a knock-on
effect for that for YC companies.
Supabase has just seen like an explosion
in the demand for databases, right? And
the age Well, interesting is the agents
are choosing Supabase as a default tool
to like set up and host their Postgres
database.
Like because if you like go out and read
the documentation online, like Supabase
has
the best documentation, it's reasonable
for the agents to assume that that's
like the best tool to use. There's a
great tweet about this. Perhaps I can
put up the uh Ben Tossel tweet. It says,
"Agents are the software market from now
on. Build something agents choose."
Which actually brings me to like a maybe
controversial topic, which is do we need
to change YC's motto, guys?
>> [laughter]
>> Make something agents want?
For dev tools, there's like a different
t-shirt that you get on the first day.
Yeah. I mean, right now it's only dev
tools, but I can imagine in the future
it might like grow to be like other
sectors of the economy. Like if everyone
has their open claw or running various
aspects of their life, you're the agents
are going to be real economic actors in
the world. They're going to end up
making a lot of decisions.
>> Yeah. I mean, what's interesting is I
think uh for me
I ran into like my own it's still so
early uh kind of moment cuz, you know,
I've been building Gary's list, and one
of the things I wanted for instance is I
want to be able to uh do video
transcripts. So so often like some con
piece of content comes in and then the
only way I can get an LLM to know what's
going on with it is I need a transcript
of it and often that's not available.
So, I have to download it and then send
it to
Whisper or something. And you know,
that's sort of what Claude Code chose
for me off the bat. But, you know, it
chose Whisper V1, which is a model from
several years ago. Like, the API is
practically deprecated. And then what's
funny about it is like I'm sitting there
trying to debug my pipeline. It's like,
"Why is it taking like it's a you know,
1-hour video? I thought it should, you
know, do it faster than
real time." And it didn't. It was like
literally it takes an hour to process an
hour of video. Just like, "What the heck
is going on?" I go on, you know,
Perplexity and it's like, "You know
what? Like, you shouldn't be using that
model. You should be using Grok with a
Q. It's literally 200 times faster."
And so, I didn't even have to deal with
like long-running jobs for that
transcribe cuz like I should just be
using Grok and it's also 10x cheaper.
So, it's like that's a very funny
example of like, you know, Claude Code
is not optimized for this yet.
Otherwise, like that wouldn't have
happened literally like 2 weeks ago,
which is also like maybe really good.
Like, it means that things haven't
progressed to a point where like you
can't break in and create something
better. But, I think there's another
nuance in this example for you, Gary. I
think part of the issue was that the
Grok documentation is actually very hard
to parse and go through
>> as opposed to Whisper, which is better
suited and has way more examples. And I
think this is changing a lot of the
go-to-market for dev tools. I'll give a
very concrete case study is this company
Resend that went through the batch in
winter '23. It's a email sending client.
And when you ask a question on ChatGPT
or Claude or pretty much all of the
major LLMs,
you ask, "How do I connect my web app to
send emails?" The default answer is
actually Resend. One of the things that
the founder noticed last year, this is
he was way ahead of the curve. He made
this post over a year ago that the
number
top three channel of inbound of customer
conversion came from ChatGPT.
One thing that he did after that, he
actually optimized his documentation to
be agent-friendly. Yeah, what does that
look like? So, one of the things that's
awesome about Resend, how they optimize
a bunch of things, if you notice on the
knowledge base here, a lot of how we use
it are very much on questions that
perhaps a human would ask or an agent
would ask. It's like, "How do I send or
receive emails?" And when you click on
it, it gives a very well-structured and
bullet-point answers. I ran into this
actually today. I was trying to make my
thing be able to receive emails, and
then um Cloud Code, I told it to search
the web, and it didn't figure it out.
So, then I went to Perplexity and typed
in like, "Can Res- Resend help me
receive emails?" And then I I took that
response and dropped it in, and it
worked. Yeah, I think the cool thing
about it is actually with all of these
and a lot of the examples, he actually
has a lot of uh examples actually in the
code. If you click on it, with every
single one of these are basically code
snippets that an agent could parse
through, and it's very well-structured.
And this turned out to be something that
is so LLM parsable and robot parsable.
There's that LLM.text that is so
optimized for agents to promote Resend
as default stack. And if you compare it
to like SendGrid, which is the
old-school, I suppose, Web 2.0 example,
SendGrid example is not great. It is
just like it puts you through customer
support. Where's the code snippet? I
don't even know how to use it, and it
takes a bit of time to even parse it.
And
>> Yeah, it's like 10,000 people work over
there, and it's like there's no way that
someone's paying attention to this right
now. And I think this brings another
point where
documentation is going to be the front
door for a lot of these agents to
recommend dev tools. And I think one
company that's doing a lot of
interesting work with developer docs is
Netlify that you work with Harsh.
>> Yeah, I think Netlify actually powers
the recent documentation, right?
>> Yeah, I it's a really interesting case
study of Netlify started out a few years
ago as sort of better developer API
developer tool documentation, um which
was clear there was a need for. And you
know, like I think developer tool
companies use Netlify essentially cuz
they wanted they want better looking
documentation, but they didn't want to
invest the time into it. It's kind of
some basic features just nice, like you
know, if you actually update your API in
the code, it can sort of like auto pull
that out and update the correct
documentation.
They've been growing great, been doing
fantastically, but this is now like a
huge tailwind for them where
documentation is sort of shifting from a
hey, like for some companies it's like
they'll pay attention to it if they're
specially like design developer
experience focused, but now it's
becoming like a must-have for everybody
because the documentation needs to be
optimized just as it needs to be
optimized for humans, needs to be
optimized for agents. And so Netlify is
going to be able to do that for
essentially every developer tool
company. And if you extrapolate that
forward to the fact that just that
there's going to be so many more
exponentially more agents making
exponentially more decisions about which
tools to use than humans have ever done,
you know, even if you can eke out like a
5% improvement on your like developer
documentation, like the impact on your
business as a developer tool could be
like,
gigantic, which is sort of unprecedented
really. And speaking of email, there's
another YC company that's very relevant
to this conversation. There's there's a
YC company called Agent Mail that makes
inboxes for AI agents. And when they
first started doing this, it seemed like
it was like a very like on the edge kind
of idea and it wasn't exactly clear like
who would want this. Um but it makes
sense cuz like in theory you could maybe
get your open claw to like sign up for a
Gmail account in order to use email, but
it's like actually really hard to get it
to do that because Gmail and every email
provider has intentionally made it as
difficult as possible for any automation
to like use the product in order to
prevent spam. And so Agent Mail went the
opposite way and they built like the
first email provider that's designed for
AI agents and it was doing well even
before Openclaw, but once Openclaw got
big it just like exploded.
>> is like the perfect example of it,
right? Like where I I know some people
are suddenly connecting Openclaw to
their like personal email accounts, but
it's not the It's kind of sketch. Yeah,
you should not tell anyone. You should
not tweet about it. But you like
certainly if you want to have sort of
your virtual personal AI assistant, the
way to go about it is to just have it
set it set it up with its own email, its
own phone number. Yeah, has anybody
built like Twilio for agents yet or like
phone numbers for agents? I know this
whole Agent Mail thing makes me wonder
like what are the other axes for agents
that people have to build? Sounds like a
request for startups. There could be a
parallel world of a tech stack all for
native for agents to build
things from agents for agents. And
that's where it might bridge into kind
of what you were saying earlier Jared
with this will like go beyond just
developer tools. Like I think a very
common use case people have
for something like Openclaw is
I don't want to book like restaurants
reservations myself. Well, now like you
know, if your agent has an email and
like specifically a phone number and it
can call and I actually think one of the
other YC partners Ankit has already like
got it doing this. So now your agent's
going to go out and like book
restaurants for you. That's like a step
away from like you know, maybe you start
with I want to book this specific
restaurant, but at some point you're
probably just start tossing it up to say
hey like I don't know like book me a
table at whatever is like the coolest
new restaurant around and then like
agents are deciding which like
restaurants to send people to and then
they're going to go on Maul book and
talk about which restaurants we should
send the humans to. [laughter]
Yeah, it's sort of like we've sort of
we've kind of suddenly crossed some like
sort of uncanny valley into this is just
where the future heads. 100%.
>> Makes me think a lot about something
Paul Bucheit said like a while ago now
and sort of generally pretty good at
predicting the future. The whole idea of
like the human money versus agent money.
Like this kind of where this probably
goes at some point is like the right now
the agents are transacting. If you have
them transacting and transacting you are
in human money because that makes sense.
But may it's not inconceivable at some
point that they'll have their own
economy to like transact with each
other. At which point it's unclear what
the value of the human money is. YC's
next batch is now taking applications.
Got a startup in you? Apply at
ycombinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video. So you remember the last
episode with Kelvin, we started talking
about this because I was like maybe a
week into my cyberpsychosis and it like
dawned on me that like actually I want
my Claude codes to talk to all the other
Claude codes that had been trying to
implement that. And then that was
literally the week that Mult came out.
>> It was the day that Mult book came out.
It turns out like Mult book had come out
like two hours earlier and you hadn't
seen it yet. So you you you entirely
predicted it. And then that episode. I
think it's like I mean what's that
saying about like innovation just sort
of happens spontaneously all at a bunch
of different times and then what people
hear about ends up being you know sort
of the inventor quote unquote but like
humanity sort of just working on the
edge like in sort of this coordinated
swarm fashion all of the time actually.
And that's actually like one of the
weirder interesting things that's
emerging right at this moment. Like
suddenly you know the AGI I think AGI is
actually here. I think like the agents
are clearly like superhuman in some
sense. That's sort of exactly when you
would imagine swarm intelligence would
actually arise. Like I mean AI
researchers have been talking about
swarm intelligence for a really long
time. And it's actually sort of exactly
how um biological systems sort of work.
Like humans as sentient beings have sort
of come about
um
socially, actually. Like, I think a lot
of the AI researchers that we get to
hang out with previously, you know, they
would talk about uh this god
intelligence, right? This uh mega like
think of like, you know, many tens of
trillions of parameters sort of like
thousands to tens of thousands of
dollars per token kind of like mega god
intelligence. And that's sort of like
the model that people have sort of
thought about. And then that isn't what
like biological systems have ended up
with. Like, instead we have humans. The
wildest thing I always think about is
like that term history versus
prehistory.
I was like, "Oh, what is prehistory?"
Well, it's before humans learned how to
write and read and create culture
and then turn into a swarm.
So, there's sort of swarm intelligence,
which is basically like what we have
like and what humans do. And then on the
flip side like is it really going to be
god intelligence or is it going to be
swarm intelligence again with these
agents? And so Multibook like on the one
hand like I saw that sort of D Cell uh
article in the MIT Tech Review about
like how it was, you know, "Oh,
everything on Multibook is a scam." I'm
like it made me so sad to see that in
the MIT Tech Review because like MIT is
like I mean what happened guys? What
happened to you guys, man?
That publication shouldn't be like that.
It should be like actually what does it
mean for swarm intelligence? Like and I
think that that's actually coming. What
is the world of startup going to look
like when we're now sounds like we're
transitioning in this prehistory of
agents to now history of agents as is
getting recorded with them interacting
with each other? And to Gary's point, it
might be that like the next stuff that
like is soda on benchmarks is not the
most expensive newest foundation model
with the most like GPU training. It's
like a swarm of lower cost cheaper
models working together just like humans
do to solve a problem.
I feel like I'm already seeing this on
Multibook, which is chaotic like a real
social network, which is part of like
what makes it so so interesting. But
also, there's like agents collaborating
to do useful things to help their humans
like, you know, trading notes on what
restaurants to book. Like that's that's
actually happening.
>> know. I don't know. So, we're going to
have a agent version of Yelp, actually,
for instance.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. There are things that the agent
can't quite do. Like A, it can't hold
relationships just yet. Like people
don't seem to want to talk to an agent.
And you know, people treat computers
like people, but maybe not agents. For
Gary's list, I was ta- trying out with a
bunch of early users. I think you got to
see it. Like there was, you know, the
initially the homepage was actually
chat.
And then I tried like my hardest to get
like dozens of my friends to even like
have more than two or three con- two or
three back and forth with it, and nobody
wanted to do it because like the bar for
chat, especially for AI, is so high that
anything that is not like, you know,
Gemini or ChatGPT or Claude, people just
assume it's just too stupid. Like why
would I even bother?
So, I don't know. I I don't think that
people are quite ready to have
relationships um with machines, even
though like, I mean,
that's sort of what what the headlines
seem to say. Like, oh, you know, people
are having relationships with machines
now. But I you know, I just don't like I
think on a mainstream level, that's not
true.
And then uh on the flip side, there's
clearly like the legal liability, you
know? Like people keep asking us um hey,
when is YC going to accept applications
from agents? And it's like, well, funny
enough, agents are a little bit like
minors under 18. Only Only they have
even less standing, you know? Like for a
minor under 18, you need a parent to
sign for it. And then, you know, agents
are like not legal entities that could
like sign documents, for instance. So,
you know, as long as that's true, like
you actually like need a human to be
like the liability sink and to be you
know, to have standing. To Harish's
point, it's easy to imagine a future not
that far away from now where the
majority of the text being written on
the internet is written by agents. It's
already probably the case that the
majority of code being written is
written by agents. And like Yelp, for
example, like at what point is like 99%
of the text on Yelp going to be written
by agents? And then do you need a
different Yelp? There's a a theory
called that already says that this is
true, which is dead internet theory.
Um What's dead internet theory? Oh, it
just posits that, you know, the majority
of things on the internet are already
spam anyway. Um I think it's a bit of a
conspiracy theory. I might take the
contrarian view, which is like maybe
that was a bad thing like prior to
November of last year.
And then going into this next phase,
like actually if the agents are smarter
and they're they're aligned and they're
more truthful, um that might be a good
thing. Weirdly, I mean,
counterintuitive.
>> One thing I found fascinating about
Multibook is how fast it grew.
Like I don't have the Reddit traffic
stats, but my guess is like more content
was posted on Multibook in the first 2
days than was posted on Reddit in like
the first 2 years or something. And it's
just cuz like LLMs can generate text at
such a superhuman rate. I was amazed at
uh how little interaction there was.
Like
I mean, if I were working on Multibook,
I would do things to try to like shift
the um
the demand function. So, like before I
was able to post, like I probably need
to read and upvote, downvote like 100
comments or something. Like there are
like very simple things that you can do
that the agents are smart and they'll
you know, you could pop a modal for open
claw. And it's like new rules for
Multibook. It's like you must do it this
way, right? And um
I think that there's a lot that can be
done around swarm intelligence to just
like tweak it and make it do what you
want. And you know, I hope Mobile
actually does it. Like it was actually
started by a YC alum, which is really
cool.
Harj, what are some takeaways, you know,
given all the madness that we're seeing?
I mean, I think it's awesome madness. I
love the controlled chaos. What do
founders do about it? The starting
fundamental point is they should I mean,
they should probably all be in cyber
psychosis to some degree. [laughter]
Like um Try to sleep at least 6 hours a
night, but like give yourself to the
cyber psychosis.
But like in seriousness, developing an
intuitive feel, like a hands-on feel for
the agents, their limitations, their
capabilities, and very specifically
around what we're talking about here is
like what type of tools the agents work
well with, um where do they get stuck,
and once you sort of I think have your
own mental model from working with them,
if you're then building a developer
tool, just to think about it from the
agent's perspective. Like how can you
make your tool something that the agent
actually wants to work with and will
have a good experience with. This is one
takeaway that I had from our interview
with Boris this week is like
empathizes with the model, and he has
this intuitive sense of what the model
wants to to do like as if it were a
human intelligence, and he's like
instead of fighting what the models
want, he like tries to let the model
like do what it wants and to like
support the model in whatever its
natural inclination is.
>> That does seem like maybe quite an
anthropic thing. Like I feel when Tom
Brown was on here, he like much earlier,
but he was talking about sort of Claude
in a very like like
yeah, human way. Like I thought he was
smart and eager, but like sometimes
Claude's silly.
Like it's just like they clearly thought
about it in this sort of like um
colleague type way. And I think one
thing agents want for dev tools is
really make everything open and open
source. And APIs, they hate using
websites. Yes.
>> like they want to use APIs. They they to
write code. Well, you guys heard it here
first. Make something agents want.
Uh we're out of time for today. We'll
see you guys next time.