Title: Kimberly Bryant Speaks at Female Founders Conference 2015
Video ID: qeeRsWofAv0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qeeRsWofAv0
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2015-02-23T19:05:54Z
Duration: PT22M4S
Views: 2854
Likes: 23
Tags: FFC, Y Combinator, Kimberly Bryant, Female Founders Conference, 2015, YC
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 515

Description:
Kimberly Bryant speaks at Y Combinator Female Founders Conference 2015.

Kimberly Bryant is the Founder and Executive Director of Black Girls CODE, a non-profit organization dedicated to “changing the face of technology” by introducing girls of color (ages 7-17) to the field of technology and computer science with a concentration on entrepreneurial concepts.

Kimberly has enjoyed a successful 25+ year professional career in the pharmaceutical and biotech industries as an Engineering Manager in a

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Good afternoon
everyone. Good afternoon
everyone. Um I'm going to need a little
bit of audience participation especially
in a room full of female founders. So
I'm thanking you for that in advance. Um
it's definitely a pleasure to be here
with you all this afternoon. Um I
actually just ran over from Misilla
headquarters because we're doing our
very first leadership team summit. So,
we have folks here from as far away as
New York City to Memphis, Tennessee, and
the Bay Area. And so, it's been a pretty
hectic week, but this was really a
highlight for me to have an opportunity
to speak to an audience such as this,
which are other female founders that I
feel a really strong connection to in
our shared path. So, thank you for
allowing me to chat with you a little
bit about our story. Black Girls Code
was founded right here in the Bay Area.
And as this picture shows, these are
what we like to call our tech divas. And
we think that we are really here put on
this planet to design the future of
technology for women and girls of color.
We started in April 2011 and we really
focused our work around creating these
opportunities for these girls ages 7 to
17 to come in and learn about technology
in a very culturally sensitive and
welcoming atmosphere which pairs them
with mentors that look a little bit like
them. Our mission is to empower these
young women to go beyond just being
consumers of technology and become the
creators of it. And our vision is to
train 1 million girls of color to code
by the year 2040 and to become the de
facto girl scouts of technology. I don't
know what the Girl Scouts thinks about
that, but we like
it. When we started, you know, I think
it's very interesting. We talked a
little bit about this in my fireside
chat with the team this morning. Um that
when we started in 2011, it was just
about the beginning of the whole learn
to code movement and really was even the
beginning of the learn to code movement
for adults. Only a few organizations
were really focused on teaching youth
about coding and technology. Since that
time, I think it's no surprise to all of
us in this room. The field has really
exploded. So we have organizations like
code.org, girls who code, code now, code
academy, all focused on teaching young
women and young men how to code, and how
to really break into the technology
space. But despite this exponential
growth we've seen in the area, Black
Girls Code remains the only organization
of its type with a singular focus on
reaching girls from underrepresented
communities. Since Thank you for
that. Um, since we started, we've really
seen our growth explode, not just here
in the Bay Area, but across the US and
abroad. We currently have seven chapters
in the US, as well as a chapter in
Johannesburg, South Africa. And we've
reached about 3,000 girls to date, and
we continue to grow.
So when I tell you those little pieces
of snippets of my founder story, it
seems like we have it all under control
and we know exactly what we are doing.
But that is not true. Um when I was
getting ready to give this presentation
or was asked to give the presentation, I
asked the folks at YC, well what exactly
do you want me to talk about? And they
were like, well yeah, you know, just
tell them your founder story. These are
other women and they would love to hear
that. And that really made me a little
bit nervous uh because I fundamentally
believe that any person that's a startup
founder and excuse my French I don't
know if we know what the hell we're
doing. We're just trying to figure this
 out and see what works. And that's
exactly what's been kind of our path. So
what I thought about what I would talk
to you about, I really didn't want to
really talk at you. I just want to kind
of have a conversation woman to woman. I
don't know if there are any men in here
or girlfriend to girlfriend and tell you
a little bit about the lessons I've
learned along the way. And some of it I
would say is the hard knock lessons I've
learned along the
way. So I'm going to tell you a couple
of things. Um some of them are pulled
from this great uh resource that I would
recommend called Good to Great by Jim
Collins. And I think it has a lot of
tidbits that will help any entrepreneur
that's starting on this path or in the
freaking of it. Um, but I also was like,
yeah, it's been a long month and I need
more help than that. Good to great is
great, but that's not going to get it.
So I was like, I need to call on the
ancestors above to help me figure out
something to say to these women that
will give them a little bit of
inspiration on their way. So for me in
our program with Black Girls Code, one
of the things that is so very important
to us is mentors and really having those
mentors and role models that give you
the tip to help you get across your
heel. For me, growing up in Memphis,
Tennessee, um I had this one
mentor that I know that many of you
probably know and love.
And I really felt that all throughout my
life, she always had the
answer. Always had the answer. So today,
I'm going to tell you a few tips from
good to great, but I'm also going to
pull from the book of Mother
Oprah. So, Mother Oprah has an answer
for anything you want to figure out in
your life, and she has been with me all
along this path. So, I'm going to start
this journey and this tips with using a
little from this and a little from that.
Um, the very first thing that I think
was one of the lessons I've learned
along the way is to do what matters
most. Um, in his book, Jim Collins
called this defining your core
values. But what does Mother Oprah say?
Mother Oprah says, "Always take a stand
for yourself, your values, because
you're defined by what you stand for."
So for Black Girls Code, we felt it was
pretty obvious that what we stood for
from the beginning. We were looking at
this space in 2011 and seeing that it
wasn't very diverse. The issue of
diversity and inclusion was something
that not a lot of people were talking
about. But we knew fundamentally one
thing that we hold truth even today that
if technology is designed mostly by
males, males who make up only half of
the population, we're missing out on the
innovation and solutions and creativity
that a broader pool of talent can bring
to the table. So our whole work
everything that we do is really grounded
in that belief in that val in that focus
and that value that this work about
technology is more than just teaching
kids to code. It really is an issue of
social equity. It really is an issue of
social justice. It really is about
equaling and leveling the playing field
for everyone especially women and girls
of color.
So this is a little bit more like what
we think the industry should look like.
So look at those faces and look at that
fashion. Do you see
that? This is what we feel that the new
leaders in technology really should look
like. And our goal is to keep that value
and focus in everything that we
do. Another key point that Jim Collins
brings out in his book is really owning
your purpose. Uh purpose is so important
to the work that you're going to do once
you identify what your core values are.
But Mother Oprah says it a little bit
differently. She says the work of your
life is to discover your purpose and
then get on with the business of living
it out. So now this is one that's very
interesting for me personally because I
always could say that I consider myself
an accidental social entrepreneur. And
by that I mean that when I started this
path in 2011, trust me when I tell you I
had no idea I would be running a
nonprofit four years later, I really was
just a mother of a very interesting um
and really different kid, a daughter who
was interested in gaming and computer
science. and I was looking for something
to get her to be a little bit more
productive than spending every weekend
at GameStop buying the new games. Um,
and I didn't know that this is the path
that it would lead me down. Um, but when
I really looked at the industry and some
of the things that were really shocking
to me at that time in 2011 is that I
wasn't really aware how underrepresented
women and girls were in the technology
industry. when I received my degree in
computer science right at the end of the
80s as you look at this chart that is
the peak. So right about 1989 I was able
to receive my degree in electrical
engineering and computer science at a
peak moment for women. Women at that
time received about 36 or 35% of the
degrees in computer science. Since that
time, the number has plummeted and it's
now only about 12 or 14% for women. But
for women of color, that number falls
off the cliff even further than what you
see on the chart. African-American women
receive only 3% of the degrees in
computer science. And for Latinos and
Native Americans, it's less than 1%. So
these numbers were really a wake-up call
for me. And I knew at that moment in
time that I would have to divert my
path, which was originally to start a
for-profit startup company to really
doing something to change those numbers,
to change the reality for my daughter
and to create a more ideal future for
her and girls that look like her. And
that's the work of Black Girls
Code. Thank you.
We are really really focused and see our
purpose is changing the face of
technology. We say that a lot but we
truly mean it because we really feel
that there's more diversity of thought
that will also be a both a business
imperative and a social justice
imperative for the industry itself and
for our nation as a whole. And that's
embedded in the purpose of our work.
The next thing that Jim Collins mentions
that I think is very important is the
bee hag. Um the bee hag is really
finding that big audacious goal and
setting a stake in the ground that is
what you're going to do. One of the
things he says and one of the things we
think is that if that goal is not big
enough to make you a little bit scared
that you may not reach it, it's probably
not big enough. for Black Girls Code.
Our goal is uh really focus on the work
that we're doing. So now I couldn't
really find a really good quote for
Oprah, Mother Oprah, for this, but I did
find a great
picture. Um but as we all know, there's
nothing that Oprah does that's not big.
Everything that she's do she does is
big. For Black Girls Code, our big
audacious goal is to train 1 million
girls of color to code by the year 2040.
We picked the year 20 240 intentionally
because that's the year when the
demographics in the US will shift so
that those folks that we consider
minorities now will become the majority.
So our focus is really to prepare these
this generation of young people to move
into positions of leadership as well as
to have the skills to be competitive in
a changing
landscape. Is it clicking?
Um, that was just a picture of some many
of the places that we've been there and
many of the girls. We haven't quite
reached a million yet, but that's the
focus. Secondly, I really love this one.
I love it a lot. It's have a reckless
disregard for the impossible. And this
one is very near and dear to my heart
simply because it took me about 25 years
to
recognize I really wasn't that great of
a corporate employee. Um that was just
not my
thing because I'm really one of those
folks that kind of likes to break the
rules. So if you tell me I can't do
something, that's pretty much a good
indicator for make me to try to prove
you wrong. And that is exactly what you
need if you're going to be a startup
founder. In terms of one of the examples
that I would use in this case would be a
use case for Black Girls Code would be
our summer of code that we started in
2012. Now in 2012 an interest
interesting thing about Black Girls Code
is that we were still like really new.
In 2011, we had one pilot, one pilot
with about 15 students. And that's what
we ended 2011 with. So, as we moved into
2012 and we started to have more
workshops and we started to have more
girls coming into our classes, we
started to move into this period of
growth, really fast growth, but we
didn't really think we were having the
impact that we wanted. And we were only
here in the Bay Area. So, we were
sitting around one day and we had a
bright idea. Why don't we take this
thing on the road? We're going to take
Black Girls Code on the road and we're
going to go to six cities. And oh, by
the way, we're going to do this only in
like one and a half or two months during
the summer. And yeah, we're going to
reach 200 girls. Now, that might not
sound like a big goal when I've told you
we've reached 3,000 students, but at
that time, the largest class we've ever
reached was about 30. So, we were like,
"Yeah, we're going to do this. Going to
reach 200 girls by the end of the
summer." Again, big audacious goal. Uh
but also it was something that we didn't
really think was necessarily going to be
possible but we didn't care because at
that time it was only myself and one
employee and we thought that this if we
did not get this work done no one was
going to do it. So we didn't care. It
was reckless disregard and we started on
our path. So as we were going on we were
doing all this work. We did our first
workshop in Atlanta. We walk into the
room, pow! There's like 85 students in
there. We know what to do. We like, "Oh,
this is fantastic. They really like this
thing. We better get it
together." I told you I'm going to be
really honest. That's true. And so we
were like, "Okay, well, let's go to the
next city." We went to the We went to
Chicago, same thing. We went to Detroit,
same thing. New York. We ended up at the
end of the summer not only reaching 200
students, we reached a
thousand.
Yes. And that's when we knew that we
really had something that we could have
even a greater impact by um migrating
our organization from a very hyperly
locally focused organization to one with
chapters and utilizing this very large
pool of volunteers. We had to execute
this work in each and every city. And if
that wasn't enough for 2012, when we
came into 2013, we're like, we're going
to do it again, but this time we're
going to reach even more girls. Going to
reach 2,000. And oh, by the way, um
we're probably going to want a crowdfund
for that. And we're going to raise
$100,000. Reckless disregard with only
two people figuring out we could do
that. But we did. We reached that goal.
We reached $100,000. even when many
people took we actually raised about
$125,000 and most people thought we
wouldn't do it. So that really set our
organization up for exponential growth
with just all of the relationships and
all of the goodwill and branding that we
receive from setting these goals and
have a reckless disregard for our
potential supposed ability to meet it.
One of the things that I think if I
would tell you any one thing that keeps
me up at night, it is this one. Building
a great team. So now, one of the things
that Oprah says about building a great
team is this. Surround yourself only
with people who are going to take you
higher. One of the things that Jim
Collins says in Good to Great is that
starting a company or running a company
is a bit like driving a bus. So you need
a driver. You are the driver. We are the
driver as the CEO or founders. But it's
our responsibility to find the right
people, the key people to put in those
seats. For me, founding a team or really
finding the right folks to be on my team
has been one of the hardest things that
I have done as a startup founder because
everyone wants to ride on the bus, but
nobody really wants to do all the work
that is required to do get the job done.
Um, but it's key for us as founders to
be able to sort through finding the
purpose person that has the same shared
purpose and drive and it's the right fit
for the company because it's a make orb
breakak situation. I think another thing
that I struggle with as a founder is
that generally we come in with the
ideas. We are like the type A number one
person on the team but really to succeed
as an organization you have to hire
people that are better than you. better
than you, smarter than you, had more
knowledgeable than you, better marketers
than you, better salespersons than you,
everything across the board. You cannot
be the best person on your team if you
want your team to grow and succeed. Um,
today we're kind of close getting there
in terms of building our team. And this
is a team that we just took this picture
like yesterday that came from all over
the country but all different
occupations to help grow the mission of
Black Girls
Code. This one I always really like to
bring it on home with in terms of really
knowing the end in mind or keeping the
end in mind and envisioning the future
before you get there.
One of the ways that Oprah describes
this is to create the highest grandest
vision for your life. Then let every
single step move you in that direction.
Now while this is a personal goal, I
would say this is the same for a company
and when you're building your vision to
understand where you want to see your
company at the end of the line when you
reach the goal, when you reach your
mission for Black Girls Co. Yesterday we
did a little exercise and we created a
future vision looking out to 220. And
this was one of the headlines that we
thought we would see in 2020. And it's
just a it's a headline that is one of
our aspirational goals. But these three
students are currently um in their 13
and 14 year old age range in our
program. But this is what we think the
headline is going to look like
underneath their picture in a few years
in 2020. high-tech startup company
founded by former members of Black Girls
Code. That's what I'm really looking for
and that's what the future vision is for
our organization is to see a room filled
with coders like this that are formerly
from Black Girls Code based on the work
and the impact that we've been able to
do with the organization. So setting the
goal in in mind and having that
throughout our conversations as a team
is what keeps us moving when the times
are rough and things are
hard. Last but not least, this one is
really one that I think um we've all
heard before. It could be a big cliche.
If you had asked me this four years ago,
I would have told you that is a cliche.
Follow your passion. Oh my god, Oprah
says that all the
time. and I love her like no other, but
it was getting on my nerves. Um, but
until it happened to me and I stumbled
literally, I kid you not, until I
stumbled across this work, something
that I would do even if I didn't get
paid for it. And the way that Oprah
describes this passion and being driven
by this passion is if you don't know
what your passion is, realize that one
reason for your soul existence on earth
is to find
it. I feel very lucky really lucky to be
placed in this space in this
time even in this body to be able to
drive for this work. It truly is my life
passion and I have no doubt in my mind
that this was this is what I was put on
this earth to
do. If I could tell you any one thing, I
would tell you to find what is your
passion. Then put all of your energy,
all of your spiritual energy, all your
passion, your technology energy, your
intellectual energy and then focusing on
that passion and then all the other
questions will be answered for you.
Thank you.