Title: Ron Conway at Startup School SV 2014
Video ID: qvHhhIfu7Lo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvHhhIfu7Lo
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-10-14T16:12:18Z
Duration: PT33M39S
Views: 50800
Likes: 553
Tags: SUS2014, YC, Startup School SV 2014, Y Combinator, Ron Conway, Startup School
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 772

Description:
Ron Conway at Startup School Silicon Valley 2014

View the annotated transcript, and add annotations of your own, on Genius: http://tech.genius.com/Ron-conway-ron-conway-at-startup-school-sv-2014-annotated

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

He's
back for a day or an hour. There's
lights behind that thing. Um, okay. So,
I interviewed Ron on this stage. We're
on stage at Startup School in 2012 and
uh the the videos on YouTube and I Ron
told a lot of the good stories then. So,
I'm not going to ask him about that
stuff. Um, but Ron has an infinite
supply of stories. Uh, for anybody, if
there's anybody out there who doesn't
know who Ron Conway is, basically just
remember this sentence. Ron Conway is
the
man. No, not in the sense of like
working for the man.
Not that man. Not that man, the other
man. Um, he is like the investor. Uh, I
tell YC startups just this blanket
advice. If Ron Conway wants to invest in
you, take his money. Um, so that's all
you have to remember about Ron Conway.
Um, a baby.
Um, YC is
procreating. So, Ron is famous for
investing in founders. Um, and so I
wanted to ask you when you say you
invest in founders, what that means is
you invest in people with certain
traits, can those traits be acquired or
is it just the case that some people
have it and some people don't? Because
these people all are interested in
starting startups, right? So I'm going
to try and get the stuff out of your
brain and blow it out onto the audience
that will be helpful to them without
being
sloppy.
Um well well I you know I I have said
before entrepreneurs are born to be
entrepreneurs and once you're an
entrepreneur you're a serial
entrepreneur you're probably going to
start companies for the rest of your
life or if you're like Zuck or Larry
Page you know it might be the only
company you start but you are an
entrepreneur for life.
Um
and I think most entrepreneurs do
correctly self-
select and I think that
um entrepreneurs are born have to be
born with some of the basics. So which
traits have to be inborn and which can
be learned? So the the basics I think
would be you have to have a hell of a
work ethic. Um you talked about it at
your Stanford class. You have to be
ambitious. You have to be aggressive.
And you have to be tough. Um because
starting a company is the hardest thing
on earth to do. And I don't think people
realize that until they do it. Since
I've watched thousands of entrepreneurs
do it. I know how hard it is. Plus, I
started my own company, Alto's Computer,
in the 70s. So, I know from personal
knowledge how hard it is. And I started
another couple of companies as well. And
so you think the driven part has to be
inbornne for sure. You can't you can't
learn to be ambitious and be driven. Um
obviously you have to be curious, you
have to be
intelligent. Um I think being a founder
is like it it's like a vocation.
Um, but if you have those basic skills,
you know, where where you've where
you're you're determined,
um, you're tough, you have a huge work
ethic, you know, you're completely rifle
focused, then there's other things that
you that you have to learn. You have to
learn to hire a management team. You
have to learn how to manage. These
things you're not born with. these
things you you have to want success so
badly that you learn how to manage. You
learn how to find a management team. You
learn how to recruit people and then
spread your vision and and motivate them
to to be just like you and be fanatical
about your business. So, how can they
tell how can these people, you know, it
would save them a lot of trouble if you
could tell them now whether they're
going to succeed in starting a startup.
How can they tell if they're driven
enough? Well, well, I mean, are you
willing to work
24/7? The really great entrepreneurs are
24/7. The word moonlighting is not even
in their vocabulary. I mean, if they're
dating somebody or they're married, they
warn their spouse that that they're not
first in line, that that this company
dream is first in line and that that you
have this vocation, you know, it's like
being a priest or a nun that that your
duty is to your company. No, it has to
be that fanatical. And if you look at
all the successful entrepreneurs, they
are that committed about it. That is a
hard commitment. But once you're willing
to make that commitment, you know, then
you know that solves the work ethic
check off. Um if you have that
commitment, then then your passion is
probably infectious. It probably means
you can in fact uh find other people and
make them as excited about your idea as
you do. So you can use it. So you have
to be a good communicator. You got to be
able to excite other people. For the
management part, you can use a trick of
leading by example. Yes. Right. You
don't have to use leadership techniques.
You just say, "I'm going to go do this
and everybody goes and does it with
you." Correct. But but for management
and recruiting, you do have to educate
yourself. Um you have to get advice
about that. Now, there's many many books
and blogs about how to do that. So if
you have the desire, you can you can
DIY. you can do it yourself because
there's lots of resources out there for
you to educate yourself on these skills
that you have to
acquire that you're not born with them.
They don't have to worry about managing
people yet though. That's like a good
problem to have, right? Yeah. Yeah.
Which means you've gotten to a certain
point. You can afford to hire people
that you then have to manage. Yeah. The
f the the the the first thing you got to
do is your idea has to be infectious
enough that you you have to find a
co-founder since most companies start
with with at least two people and they
usually start with two people who know
each other. Yeah. And and so they're
able to feed on each other's excitement
and then go from there. So when you're
when you're deciding who to invest in,
um this is not just a a way to get Ron's
money. It's also heristic for figuring
out what works because how many startups
have you invested in now? Uh since this
is my 20th year of angel investing. So
it's anniversary just like it's the 10th
startup school. Um and in the 20 years
we've invested in over 750 companies.
But in investing in 750 companies, each
of which who has a founders team, we
have talked to thousands of companies
about potentially investing because for
every company we invest in, we look at
30. So what? Whoa.
Yeah. 21,000 companies. That's That's
why SV Angel's up to 13 people. Do you
realize you have looked at 21,000
companies?
Yes. Now, I didn't look at them all
because SV Angel has 13 people. Now,
funny enough, I don't I don't do any due
diligence anymore. I just help portfolio
companies with with hard unique
problems, but the SV team's completely
built out now and they do all the
diligence. I'm no longer a picker. How
does the SV team how does the SV angel
team work? Well, uh, we're up we're up
to 13 people. Um, if you look at me, you
could call me the the
grandfather. Uh, because David Lee and
Brian Pakornney aka coach, they're
becoming the wise old men. I mean,
they've been around me now for close to
10 years each. And so they they have the
pattern recognition. They're now solving
all the problems I used to solve five
years ago. So everybody's escalating
their role. And then you have uh uh
Kevin Carter and Toeer, my son, who are
also becoming wise old men because
they've been around SV Angel for 5
years. Um but but we are rifle focused
on generational planning. Uh, I believe
this industry belongs to young people
and so, you know, Toeer and Kevin are
getting close to 30 and we've actually
said, "Hey, when you're 30, you know,
you better make sure you have we have
four or five people at SV Angel in their
20s because the people in their 20s are
the good pickers."
Um and then and then as you get wiser
and older, you're more better advice
givers to the founder. Interesting.
Interesting. So there's that's
interesting that in the venture business
picking and giving advice are different
or skills that peak at different ages.
Correct. AB in our opinion. Absolutely.
So, I'm an age bigot and uh uh I I keep
telling our team ma make sure we hire
and bring in really smart 20 year olds
cuz in in 30 years I hope they're Ron
Conway and they're being interviewed,
you know, by Sam. You need investors who
actually use instant messaging apps that
like make the photo disappear and stuff
like that. Yes. Right. Yes.
Yeah. Kevin Carter on our team, 24 at
the time, he picked that company. He
tapped me on the shoulder and he goes,
"That's important. Go fly to LA and
spend time with him." Okay. And that
worked out. That worked out.
Yeah. By the way, if you want a list of
the companies Ron has invested in, it
would be shorter to give a list of the
ones he hasn't invested in. um just like
assume that if you've heard of some big
famous startup, Ron is an investor and
you'll you'll pretty much be right. I
just assume it. Um
so what about um what should people do?
I was just talking about this. What
people should do in college if they want
to start a startup later. What do you
think people should do before starting a
startup? Do you have opinions about
that?
Well, I you know whether or not they're
in college for me really doesn't matter
because uh there are founders who didn't
go to college at all. There are founders
who went to some of college and dropped
out and then there's some that went all
the way through college. Larry and
Sergey went all the way through college
and dropped out of the PhD program at
Stanford. So, I don't think it's about
where you're at. I think it's about when
when the idea comes in your mind, that
compelling idea, that aha moment that
says this is it. This is a company. And
it's usually based around a personal
experience where where you have that aha
moment and you're so motivated by it and
taken by it that if you're not in school
or if you're in school, it doesn't
matter. you stop what you're doing and
go pursue that idea. So, what you want
to do is you want to set yourself up so
you have these aha moments, these
personal experiences. Correct. Correct.
How do you do that? And you can almost
be anywhere for that to happen. I mean,
for Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, they
were at a dinner party, took a video,
and found out that there was no easy way
to upload that video and just share it
with the other guests. with Zuck. It was
like, I don't want to go through the
physical hard copy Facebook at Harvard.
Why can't that just be on my computer?
And then 10 years later, why can't that
be on my phone? Yeah. Um, so, you know,
Sean Fanning, his roommate, wanted to
share songs with other people in his
dorm. So, Sean Fanning hacks together a
music sharing app. Um so it it's it's
based around a need and and an idea in
all and that creates the huge companies
in all of the cases you mentioned the
need was the founders's own need.
Absolutely. All the biggest companies
are based on a founder who had a need
hacked it together and then said hey
wait a minute other people probably want
this. And then and then they start to
grow on on their own. Notice what you
said. The realization that other people
might want it comes afterwards. Correct.
So it really it's not even supposed to
be for other people in the beginning.
Yeah. Yeah. A lot of it is serendipity.
But but once once the serendipity phase
gets over, then you need to start
thinking about product market fit. You
know, who is the customer for this? It's
all about users which is why YC is so
successful is once you come up with the
idea then YC's mantra is well how do you
how do you how do you find users who
also want this product because unless
you create a market there's no need for
the product. When you look at startups
and you're thinking of investing in them
do you care a lot about the story about
how they started working on the idea? Uh
I absolutely do. I mean,
I the more compelling and personal the
story is, the more excited I get about
the company early on, even though I
don't
know, you know, whether or not it's
going to be a huge huge company, but but
what I've said it probably to a lot of
people in this room, one of the first
questions I ask is what inspired you to
start the company? And it is an
inspiration you know when it goes into
your head you are inspired by it and
then and then you are driven by it.
Um so do you also care a lot about the
the story about how the founding team
met? Do you pay attention to that? Yes.
very very important to understand how
you as I said before most companies have
a couple of founders and it's very
important to know how those two founders
met how they interact with each other
remember when we first meet them it's
usually two or three people and I'm
always watching how they interact if one
person starts answering the other
person's question and interrupts them a
lot you know ding ding ding ding warning
signal. Those two founders probably
aren't going to get along forever. Uh
and they're probably right now fighting
about who's going to be the CEO when in
the early days it doesn't matter who the
CEO is. It matters if you can find users
and you have a compelling
product. So how can these people they
they're interested in starting startups.
How how can they find potential
co-founders when they have someone
they're thinking of starting a company
with? what what sort of filter should
they how should they apply? How can they
tell if this person would make a good
co-founder? Well, mo most
co-founders that you know when I think
about this, most
co-founders are collaborating and end up
coming up with the idea
together. Um if if you look at Facebook,
Pinterest, Google, there's there are two
founders for all two or three. There's
two founders for all these companies and
they actually come up with the idea
together. Yes. One of them is the one
that says, "I feel the need." But the
co-founder ends up being a friend of
theirs or a colleague who says, "Wow, I
agree with you and I want to work on
that." Not, "Wow, I think that's goofy
and I don't want any part of it." But
it's the co-founder is usually somebody
who shares like 99% of the excitement
and inspiration of the person who came
up with the idea. So you don't Chad
Hurley and Steve Chen. You don't just
want to work on interesting problems.
You want to work on interesting problems
with other people. Absolutely. It's it's
a collaborative process. Um you know how
excited are you going to get or
accomplish something if it's just you? I
mean there are single founder companies
out there but very few. Why? Why do you
think there are so few? Because I can
tell you from looking at Y Combinator
applications huge number of single
founders applying to YC maybe half the
applications are single founders. I
didn't know that. Yeah. Well, no, but
like there disproportionately unlikely
to get accepted. Yeah. So
So there you go. There you you heard it
here. True. You heard it here. If you
apply to YC, there should be two of you.
But but not if that means like putting
something on Craigslist saying I'm
applying to YC. Don't do that. And and
it obviously can't be forced. So if if
you get this idea in your head, think
about, you know, Mark Zuckerberg or Ben
Silverman. You know, Ben Silverman's
idea when he started Pinterest was
really obtuse, you know, where he said,
"I think people should be using the
internet to discover things." And people
look at them like, "Wow, what's that
about?" Well, you know, I used to
collect things when I was a kid. If you
put those collections on the internet
and enough people put on their
collections, people start discovering
things that they're interested in. It
sounds so lame, doesn't it?
I history has proven that it w is not
lame. No, I know. But all the but sounds
so lame. At the time it took him forever
to get funded. So what did what did Ben
Silverman do? Everyone he talked to
starting with his mother who I think is
the biggest pinner on earth. He
evangelized his product and talked to
anyone he could find and said, "What do
you think of this?" And then you find
someone who says, "Jesus, I think that
is awesome. That is so interesting. Can
I work with you on it? Kaboom. You have
a co-founder. You have somebody as
excited as you are about this brand new
neophied idea. All right. So, if you if
you have actually built the thing with
another person, that's a good sign that
they would make a good co-founder
because they have the same credul as
you. Um, so how do people know when
their idea that they're so excited about
is actually bad? If what if how can they
tell if a lame sounding idea is actually
lame or if it's just one of these ideas
that sounds lame in the beginning
because it's such an
outlier? Well, I mean, you have to be
careful about that because a lot of
ideas that seem like they're bad end up
being huge. So, I I think it's about
persistence and conviction about your
idea. How can you tell as an investor?
You see these companies stage where the
ideas see still seem like okay as an
investor I cannot tell that all SV angel
invests in is people so we in so yeah we
don't even know we cannot predict the
success or failure and 40% of our
investments fail we think that failure
rate's lower than most of the
industry but we can't tell so we invest
in the traits of the individual. Okay.
So, let's talk about specific
individuals. Ben Silverman, for example,
what what traits did he have that made
you invest? Okay. For him, it was his
rifle focus on the
product. Um, now keep in mind, rifle
focus on the product also applied to
Larry Zuck. uh it you know Dropbox,
Airbnb, it applies to every successful
founder is they were rifle focused about
the product to the point of being rude
and a lot of them get accused of being
arrogant because they're so focused on
the product. Uh because other people
will say, "Hey, will you come to this
event or will you get interviewed by the
New York Times?" And they're going like,
"Why would I ever want to do that when I
can make my product better?" Because
guess what? I went from 10,000 users
last month to 25,000 users. And in the
next month, if I can get it to 50 or
100,000 users, why would I want anyone
to distract me with anything else? And
that focus on the product is what builds
huge companies and and you it's so
contagious other people want to come
join your team and help you. But some of
some of the ones that were
counterintuitive would be like an
Airbnb, like they want me to share a
room in my house. Um, but the the 2008
uh mortgage crisis in New York helped
Airbnb because in New York in 2008,
there were thousands of people if they
didn't rent out a room in their house,
they were going to be foreclosed on. And
that was that was the mushrooming of
Airbnb. And then lo and behold, they
found out that every single person on
earth wants to do this. Yeah, it's sort
of this movement. It's a worldwide
phenomena. Dropbox would be another
example. I I already have a a storage
device. Why Why would I want to move to
the cloud? What's that? Do you remember
when you first met Drew Hston? Yes. What
was it about him that you liked? What
traits did he have? Well, shame on me. I
didn't invest in Dropbox right away. So
I was you know I in that case I saw a
great entrepreneur and I sometimes we do
get over opinionated about the idea and
that is always a mistake when we do
dropbox and Airbnb we love the founders.
Geez that idea well the idea is not our
job in my opinion you know our job is to
invest in great great founders. Now I I
know this sounds like an insulting
question but it's really interesting.
You've been doing this for 20 years. Why
are you still making this mistake?
No, but I mean it's interesting, right?
If there's there must be like this
really powerful magnet like pulling you
off to the side. It It's a very risky
business and since the beginning, you
know, SV Angel kind of invented the
portfolio approach to investing. I
always intuitively thought there's no
way I'll ever make the right decision
every time. So, I'd rather make the
right decision about a certain
marketplace and then go find the 20 best
companies and hope that one of those
wins. And and that strategy ends up, you
know, it's it's a great strategy. And
when you started, you had this little
niche marketplace called the internet
internet software, right? It was I'm not
joking back in 1994 when he started.
This was niche investing. In 1994, Mark
and Dreon had just graduated from the
University of Illinois, had not started
Netscape, but in
1994, I had finished doing three
startups a and had dabbled in angel
investing and said, "I want to do this
the rest of my life." I teamed up with
Ben Rosen, who was then the chairman of
Compact, and we said, and and we both
had plenty of gray hair at the time, and
we said, "Okay, let's go angel invest
together." Okay, what are we going to
invest in? Uh- because we weren't going
to invest in everything. And we said,
"Let's invest." You said, "Not
hardware." Yeah, for sure. Not hardware.
I'd already done that. Um and for sure,
not package software because I had done
that. and and we said, "Let's invest in
this thing called the internet
because it's it's at zero and we can
watch it grow and therefore it'll be
interesting and
exciting and 20 years later that is all
we're doing internet software." So I
noticed the words you're using here. You
haven't mentioned anything about money.
I I I think that that uh You mean making
money or Yeah, because you're investors.
Everybody thinks investors are like in
it for the money, right? Well, I I my
view I I'm in it because I love meeting
great founders, helping them, and
watching them be successful. I I get to
meet people BF. I get to meet these
founders before they're famous. And and
there is nothing more satisfying than
giving advice to a Mark Zuckerberg, a
Ben Silverman, a Larry Page in the first
two years of their existence and then
watching them fly,
watching this rocket just like watch the
rocket ship take off and say, "Wow, I
was part of that. I I I I put the first
gas in the gas tank of that company."
Um, so I think money, fame, fortune, uh,
notoriety, that's all
byproducts of of working your ass off.
You know, I noticed a similarity between
the way you operate and what you look
for in founders, right? The founders
aren't in it for the money either.
They're just trying to make this amazing
product and the company's success is a
byproduct, right? You just like are
super into these founders and SV angel
investing in all these companies is a
byproduct and that's that's why we all
like each other. Yeah. It's even though
when they get famous I don't see much of
them but but we have we are kindred
spirits.
Does it help you you think as an
investor to have been a founder
yourself? For sure. For sure. Because
because I know how hard it is. Um, so if
if I hadn't founded a company myself, I
I wouldn't feel like I had as much
credibility. Well, I meant more does it
help you pick people because you were
literally looking for kindred spirits?
Uh, yes. Yes, it does. Yes, it does. Cuz
because you can say, "Hey, will this
person work 24/7? Is this person a good
communicator? Will they follow through?"
So, here's a question. Um, if someone if
if a founder was going to fool other
investors but not fool you because you
had been a founder yourself and you
could recognize kindred spirits, what
would this founder be like? What are the
kind of founders that would fool other
investors but not fool you? What do you
not fall for?
Um, well, I'm I'm going to go back to
the to the to the focus on the product.
I see. And so if they don't care a
little too much about the product,
correct? Then that that's a warning
sign. And that that that
trait 10 year, okay, I've been doing
this for 20 years. That trait didn't
start pinging in my brain until like 10
years ago. And then five years ago it
became an
alarm be be because and and a lot of it
probably Ben Silverman Silverman was
probably the tipping point where it's
all he cared about and then from pattern
recognition I said wow that's all Larry
cared about that's all Jack Dorsey cared
about
that and I said that's all Steve Jobs
cared about and that's all yeah that's
that's all these great people care about
it's focus Just focus on the product.
There's a guy at Pinterest, Tim Kendall.
I hope he has a hundred of these shirts
because he wears the same shirt every
single day of the year. He's the head of
product there. And it's a circle with
the word
focus. And even when they have outside
visitors who were like super important,
he will walk into the room with his
focus t-shirt and he's not taking it
off.
And but
but boy does that
count. H okay. So you might think like
you're trying to start a startup, you're
trying to start a business, you should
be business-like, right? And the lesson
here is really you should focus almost
too much on the actual product. Yeah.
Because if you focus on the product,
obviously the only way to measure
success in the product is users. And you
will keep tweaking that product
until user growth starts to
explode and then you you jump for joy
and and go for billions of them. So you
focus on the product and the business
follows. Correct. Ah okay.
Um so what do young founders
specifically get get wrong when they
start
companies? If you if you see a young
founder and you think, "Oh my god,
that's such a noob mistake. These guys
are, you know, these guys look
promising. Oh, but they're so young.
They're doing X, right?" What do young
founders do wrong? Um I I I
think you know it would be lying to
yourself
after you know you've you've prototyped
the product. It's in the marketplace.
It's not getting
traction. It's not admitting that guess
what it's not working. And and it's
great if the founder says hey stop stop
the stop the train. this this idea is
not working. What do we need to do to
make this idea work? Because success is
binary. You are either successful or
you're not. Your product is getting
traction or it's not. And if it's not
getting traction, the sooner you admit
that and start doing things about it,
the better off everybody's going to be.
So, they're too prone to remain in
denial. Correct. And when they get
older, they've learned to realize this
warning signs of denial.
That's true in many domains actually.
Um, so just just being honest with
yourself. What's funny is your team will
recognize it and admit it before you,
but of course they would never discuss
it with you. So when you say, "Hey,
guess what?" You call everybody in and
have a come to Jesus meeting and say,
"This is not working." Everyone in the
room in their heads is going, "Oh my
god, the founder knows this is
awesome. This is awesome. Now we're a
team. Now we can go do something about
it." And the founder thinks morale is
going to go down as a result of this
meeting. when in fact morale
explodes because the team says, "Jesus,
we're in trouble, but we all know we're
in trouble and we're all going to figure
it out together." Not the founder by
themselves trying to figure it out. You
know what that reminds me of? It reminds
me of the re what what happens when you
fire somebody or you remain in denial
about it for a long time. Yes. And then
you finally do it and you fire them and
you think morale is going to go down and
actually everybody's delighted because
they knew this person
I would say firings and
layoffs. You know, if if you're running
low on money, you have to face the fact
and you have to lay people off. Well,
when you lay people off, that is not a
good thing for the people getting laid
off. But for the people who are
remaining in your company, they are
saying,
"Wow, my founder is here to survive."
And so we're not just going to spend the
money till we go out of business. And
when you lay people off, you tend to lay
off the deadwood. Yeah. And when
Deadwood leaves a company, morale
explodes because the remaining people
say, "Wow, we're not wasting money on
them anymore. I I can work harder and
take all those people's place. I just
want to pause for a moment. Is there
anybody back there? This clock here says
25. Does that mean we are already Hello,
Jessica? Are we over? Is that what that
25 means?
Okay. All right. Someone should be
waving frantically. We just got so
excited talking about this stuff. Well,
Ron, there's a lot to talk about. Is
there anything else we should talk
about? Because we're already over. Uh
hopefully you have gotten something out
of this. I like talking to Ron.
Thank