Title: How Photoroom Trained Themselves To Dream Bigger
Video ID: RgYCO87ghRY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgYCO87ghRY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-24T05:00:30Z
Duration: PT22M4S
Views: 3504
Likes: 65
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 661

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So one thing that really helped us in
the beginning at PhotoRoom was focusing.
>> [music]
>> And by that I'd explain that initially
we started doing video and photo and we
focused 10x on photo and we grew 10x.
And then we focused on e-commerce photo
and we grew 10x again. So don't don't
confound don't don't misinterpret like
depth with ambition.
So being deep is actually a great way to
achieve ambition.
>> So maybe we can start with just each of
you telling us who you are, what is
PhotoRoom, what's the scale of PhotoRoom
is, and then I'll ask you a bunch of
questions on ambition.
>> Yeah. Hi everyone.
So in 30 seconds PhotoRoom gives
e-commerce businesses AI visual to grow
and sell. So this is like a one sentence
description that you can add at YC of
what we do. And to tell you the scale of
PhotoRoom, I think the one I'm really
proudest of is Gary Tan saying at the YC
retreat that PhotoRoom is the biggest YC
company with an HQ in Europe. That was a
good one last year.
In numbers,
300 million 300 million downloads, 20
million active users and the biggest
e-commerce in the world. So Amazon,
Uber,
DoorDash, Decathlon all using PhotoRoom
to edit their visuals to sell more on
the internet.
>> Congrats.
>> [applause]
>> Okay, so you're two French founders
that built a company with the scale that
you just described. Did you always think
it could be that big?
>> I think you're always a bit surprised by
how how big it can become.
I think that we when we came out out of
YC we came out with much more ambition
and and we we had in our mind that it
could become what it's become today and
probably can become 10x bigger, but it
was still like some a big hypothesis. We
we knew the path but was still surprised
when when it happened.
>> So, you mentioned that YC made you so
much more ambitious. So, maybe can you
tell us transparently with examples how
ambitious were you before YC and after
YC?
>> Uh well, one thing I remember deeply is
I was in a startup before and
uh we wanted to do I think we wanted to
do more like how do we do a 100 1
billion dollar company
uh
and we came to YC, but that was
>> not concrete. Like there were no path,
no playbook. It's like kind of a dream
and not very concrete. Uh and so, YC
came up with
playbook and you actually make it a lot
more concrete because the people you're
talking to like and uh exchanging with
they're they're at the scale you're
you're looking at. So, that
uh like just having this random
conversation with someone who's like
built a 10 billion dollar company is
like, "Okay, so that's that's the scale
we're talking." Like it's it's it looks
closer. So, I would say before is like a
dream that you're looking from afar and
you're touching kind of just like
ambition when you get there.
>> I think it happened to other founders we
we talked to before and after YC. It's
like you you go to YC and you tell your
friends, "Yeah, okay, 1 billion company.
Haha. It's like it's not not like it's
going to happen." And you come out of
out of YC like it's not going to be 1
billion, it's going to be at least 10
billion. Like it it it yeah, it changes
the scale at which you can dream and
realistically dream, yeah.
>> I remember so, I did YC in summer 14 and
one of the questions that I knew they
would ask was how big could it get?
And we were waiting and we were
preparing with my co-founder and I was
listening to all these American teams
and when being asked how big could it
get, it was so natural for them to say,
"Obviously a billion dollar company."
And I had to train so many times to be
able to say naturally, "Obviously a 1
billion dollar company." It was so hard.
Um but I think I mean I'll I'll share
for me an anecdote of how YC transformed
our um, ambition. So, when I got into
YC, we were accepted in the first
dinner, we walked in and a partner uh,
Kevin Hale, I don't know if you had him
as a partner. Um, just asked me, oh, so
what are you doing? And I said, I'm the
CEO of Front. And he said, oh, Front,
like that's one of the coolest company
in the batch. And I was convinced he was
talking about another company. Like, I
was so unsure about everything we were
doing.
And then fast forward 3 months later,
end of batch talk, I remember Sam Altman
saying, you know, out of the 100 and I
don't know, 10 companies in the batch,
only five of them will still be alive in
5 years. In my head, I was like, I think
I will be one of them. Um, but maybe you
can share on this. So, I do agree that
YC changes the ambition. Do you think
it's like, how did it happen concretely?
Is it There is there a moment that
created the shift? Was it something
slower that happened?
>> I think it happens over time with
multiple steps, but like when you talk
about that, like one one clear moment
was we did so Demo Day was the first
batch to be remote. And
I think you you kind of set always set
expectation looking at the people around
you. And
I mean, for for us, like we're literally
pitching from Paris because it was Demo
Day, but we were like the most like, you
know, and like doesn't matter, but the
most like
company because we did zero to 1 million
in uh, like during the batch and like
literally we're the fastest growing
company of the batch. And you you kind
of okay, so there is a 5% rate.
Uh, you know, like X percent, I don't
know, a few percent of the batch is
going to be like a unicorn and right now
we're like uh, on top of the of the
batch. So, well, that something needs to
happen, but the math seems to say like
there's no reason we can't do it.
>> Yeah, I I really believe it happens
continuously. I I think it still happens
today. So, not many people know that YC,
on top of the program, the 3-month, you
you still meet with the the YC partners
and you still spend time getting their
advice. And YC also runs events after
that, so you can meet with other
founders. So, just just here in the
meeting room talking to other founders,
you reset a bit your ambition because
they they grow much faster than you and
you're like, "Oh, how can I get there?"
Um another example was uh YC organized a
retreat in California.
And so, you're having dinner and there's
two founders uh talking about the
satellites they are currently deploying
in space. And they're two different
startups launching satellites and
comparing, "Oh, how many do you have in
space?" "Oh, I have six." And "How about
you?" "I have eight." And you're you're
like, "Okay, well, those people,
they're, you know, 20-30 people company,
they're launching satellites in space.
That that's the benchmark." So, even
even today, just by meeting people like
this, it it helps it helps you reset a
little bit your your benchmark. And I
think that's even more true for the
newest companies. So, if you look at the
demo day where companies are presenting
at YC, their growth curve is just such
so impressive. You're like, "Okay, well,
how how do I get the same growth curve?"
So, that's Yeah, that's that that's
really like I think it's a continuous
process.
>> Yeah. And what you're not saying is the
person building satellites, the founder,
is 19 year old. Yeah. Um so, why do you
think that European founders are scared
of ambition or selling big ideas?
>> We we talked about it a little bit with
with some people that are that are in
the room and and I think it's most
likely cultural, like just one one thing
that's how we grew up and the culture of
European countries of when you
talk about the big idea, someone will
laugh at you or will try to find the the
bad things that could happen.
And I think if you do the same thing in
the US, people would say, "Hey, that's
an amazing idea." And by default, it's
encouraging. And so, it pushes you much
more towards the direction of, you know,
just just trying. So, there's this like
how people react to big ideas.
There's probably also value the value of
failure. Like, we really live in a
country where, okay, you fail, that's
not that great. Whereas, there are
plenty of other countries where, well,
you miss, you know, you learn a few
things, and that's great, and we can
give you a job offer because you you
learn a lot of things, and so we're
happy to extend that offer. I think
there are a few criteria, like the those
ones where really the culture of your
country matters, and also so why it's
important to surround yourself with
people from different cultures.
>> And I I want to dig deeper into how you
actually make it happen. Like, how do
you become more ambitious? Maybe just
one last question on ambition in
general. Like, why does it matter even
to be ambitious in the first place?
Or does it?
>> I I think when it's very clear that like
any problem is like how how
is the same it's tough to if a problem
is tough to solve, it's not necessarily
harder to solve it. So it's really
ambitious to like
like find that. And then he found this
problem that is actually hard because
you also are going to attract more
talented people. And one thing that like
uh
like one idea around which we founded
Photo Mechanic Failure was the idea that
like you really want to work with smart
ambitious people, and that's you that
pulls you higher. And you won't like if
you don't have a hard tough ambitious
problem, it's going to be very difficult
uh to hire smart smarter than you
uh people. So it is very important to to
work with smart people to actually aim
for something big. And that that's the
key part of the success.
>> Well, actually I have a bit of a
contrarian opinion that it's it's it's
it's not always important to be
ambitious.
Let me explain. So when when my friends
are telling me, "Oh, I want to launch a
company."
I ask them the question, okay, let's say
you have two options. Uh option A is
your company is working decently well,
you're struggling a little bit to get
money, it's not growing as fast as you
want, but you're working on a project
that you're deeply passionate about.
It's really the thing you you started it
for. It's aligned with your belief.
And number two, your company is growing
super fast. And it's not exactly the
thing you had in mind at the beginning,
but it's growing. It's tough because you
have growing pains. And I ask them,
"Okay, what what what do you prefer?"
So, I'm I'm really curious in the
audience what's what's what is it for
you. So, let's say you I'm guessing the
answer already, but
if you had to pick between option A,
which is like, "Okay, company not
growing that much, but it's really
aligned and everything's going
well." Versus option B, where it's you
know, growing fast. So, who would prefer
option A in this room?
Okay. And who would prefer option B,
where it's
More people, interesting. But but I
think it's important to answer that
question first because in option A,
where you're doing this as a passion
project, you know, ambition if if it's
you're living your passion, you're doing
this for your passion, you maybe you
don't need ambition.
But the thing you have to realize that
if you're signing for the the classic
startup VC model, you're here for
growth. Like your investors, everyone is
going to ask growth for your employees,
everyone is here. You're here for get
your company as big as possible. And so,
if you do not have the ambition to get
it as big as possible, you're going to
miss out on it's the necessary criteria
of classic startup that that means
growth.
>> Yeah, and I don't know if all of you
know this concept of one-way door versus
two-way doors. Like two-way door is you
make a decision and you can go back, and
one-way door you can't go back. And
there are not many decisions in the life
of a company that are one-way door. When
you make these decisions, you should be
super careful about making them. And one
of them is taking VC money and signing
up for a venture-backed company. Because
the moment you do this, you sign up for
more growth every year, and that
dictates so many things about how you're
going to operate your company. Um so,
let's assume that you actually want to
aim a higher and want to be more
ambitious. And to be honest, like if the
audience is European, I would argue that
no matter what, you should aim higher
because my experience with Front end
offices in the US and in
Paris also
in the last batch I was doing we had 2/3
that were from 1/3 that was from Europe.
And one thing I've noticed is for equal
skills
American people obviously are so much
more ambitious. The best example of this
is literally
us France making an offer to an engineer
in Paris and us making an offer to
another engineer in the US. They're
equally good. The French engineer tells
us true story. Like I'm not going to
join the company I've met your team
they're just too strong. I think I'm
going to fail. And then the American
engineer who is clearly
um
overconfident will say yeah, I'm going
to join and also I want to be two levels
above what you just offered as
compensation. And so then I end up in a
situation where the French engineer
didn't join the company yet had the
skill to do this and the American
engineer joined the company two levels
up and is now set up for failure and
will eventually leave. Everyone loses.
So the balance is probably what's best.
So how do you get there? How do you take
this like very skilled European founders
and help them be more ambitious very
tactically?
>> So we we talked about surrounding
yourself with ambitious people. So I
mean if you hear a friend telling you
yeah, probably not going to work then 1
million is too high block them. I don't
know.
But surrounding yourself is probably a
good idea. I think there are a few
tricks you can use. You can probably try
to list all your options. Say okay, like
I'm going to look for a new job. How
much
what level can I like decently aim for?
So I don't know software engineer level
two whatever. And then just do the
thought exercise of okay, I have a magic
wand no constraint at all. What's the
level like just above that? And what's
the level 10x above that? And what's the
level like like full control I'm I'm
like king of the universe. I can aim as
as high as I as I go. So forcing
yourself to just
aim higher because as you've said like
it's it's ingrained in our system that
it's much much much
it's very natural to aim lower or have
doubts. So, yeah, I guess that's one
trick.
>> Yeah, on that I clearly remember, so we
were like a small I mean we grew very
fast to 1 million and then to 20 million
of ARR and I literally remember like
doing an offsite 10 people and saying
like now we're going to aim at 20
million and we're like at a few millions
of ARR and everyone in the room say like
it's not possible and then 1 year later
we're there. So, there is a power of
like setting the bar high and I probably
we I would have said like we'll be at 8
million we would have been at 8 million.
So, really there's a just like auto
realization of how much you think you
can accomplish on one vertical
and just it realize themselves you need
to always constantly say can we can we
beat at that point and then talking to
YC partner was actually like said the
right talking to other people ambitious
people set the bar in the right way.
>> It's really funny like the goals you set
yourself they end up happening. Like if
you look at the curve of the times at
marathons like there's a spike at 2:30
and and 3 hours because people say I'm
going to 2:30 in 3 3 hours cuz they fool
themselves and so it's the same with
with targets. You can just say okay,
here's the goal and then you walk back
from there and you know, worst case you
end up lower than the goal but at least
you would be would have been higher than
not setting an ambitious goal.
>> Yeah,
Nico who is another partner at YC always
says shoot for the stars worst case you
land on the moon and that's good enough.
Sam Altman gave a talk a month ago at YC
and said
just add a zero to whatever success
metric you have in mind and then that
will force you to do the thought
exercise of how you get there and that
exercise enough is extremely useful. So,
you said one of the things that you
should do is hire ambitious people
and one of the tactical things you can
do is to block people that
ambitious but just very practically how
do you find these people? How do you
assess for ambition?
>> Um,
so there is for instance one thing of a
like रूम is very global. We have like
180 countries and for us it's very clear
that like a you
if you don't like want to be global like
you're not going to be ambitious enough.
And so we speak like we speak
deliberately English in the in the Paris
office and I'll tell you you can look at
my WhatsApp with Elliot. We only speak
English and that was actually a
tremendous filter of people who want to
build a global company. Like if you
enter Phot रूम and you say actually I
don't really then you're two French
people you
you speak French with each other that
doesn't make sense.
And that's that's kind of a filter for
us like you have to be ambitious like
English is the global language and we
won't like we won't dominate and be the
leader of the world if we just speak
French in the Paris office.
>> And and I think the the what what you
said just before which is what is your
success metric and how how
big do you want to aim is an interesting
discussion to have with the people
you're going to work with.
I'm hearing discussions of people who
started working together and they didn't
realize there was a disconnect. They
If I ask the two people the question I
just asked you, someone would say hey no
I'm I'm interested in the mission of the
company, it's fine if it doesn't go big
and the other is like it's the world of
of nothing. And just this disconnect is
enough to slow down the company and just
like create a lot of frustration. So I
think it's important to align with the
whoever you're working with
what you're here to do because maybe the
person is just here for a stable job,
not worrying too much and enjoying their
weekend. And that's entirely It's just
like some other people might be really
excited at creating a product that
really has a big impact. In US they like
to say they
make a dent in the universe. And so just
you know this mindset is perfectly fine
as well. You just need to
understand that it will require some
trade-off, some compromises and
and going that direction is costly but
reaps great benefits.
>> Are there other exercises that you've
done? I think we talked about
ranking projects by impact.
What are some practical things that
you've implemented at Photo Room to keep
that ambition?
>> Definitely. So, once you get bigger,
it's easy to forget the end goal. And
so, just, you know, ranking all the
projects and say, "Okay, if this works
out perfectly, how much revenue it is
going to bring us?" So, I think that's
an interesting exercise to do.
I think most of the time, as well,
looking back at the things that you
worked on is important. So, if your
company is not growing as you expected,
looking back and saying, "Okay, I worked
on that project for 3 months, and turns
out the result is not at all what I
expected in terms of impact. What went
wrong? What piece in the decision chain
didn't go well so that next time I'm not
going to make that that mistake?" So,
just looking back at at at past mistakes
to make sure that next time you're
picking the project that is, you know,
the most the most ambitious.
>> One extra thing that works, especially
in small teams, is
all size of team, actually, is what's
the asking what's the V0 of that. So,
you always have like people starting
working on something, and
most of the time, like 50% of the
project they'll fail. Like, they don't
have the impact you expect them to have.
And
one of the the key to like actually
trying more project, which is how you
get impact, is reducing the time for
each project. So, what what what can you
get from that to understand and learn if
this project is going to be successful?
And always catching like what matters?
Like, what's the V0 of that? So, you can
learn if it's going to be successful or
that. Otherwise, people might spend like
3 months on a project, and really with
AI now, you can do it in like 3 days.
So, cutting down to what's the V0 is
very important to optimize for impact.
>> And even Olivier Pomel was in this room
before, so he owns a 50 billion company.
He says, "One learning the one learning
is also always learn how to go faster in
even in the age of AI." So, really that
thing of like going as fast as you can,
it applies to small startups, but it
applies also like to much larger
companies. So that's really key.
>> Yeah. I I I think that you can do So uh
when you get into YC, you have group
office hours every uh other week. So you
have like maybe eight other companies
that are with you. And one of the uh
exercises that we ask everyone to do
after a few weeks is explain to me how
your business is going to uh
lead to a hundred million of AR. Like
just doing this exercise when you're
super early forces you to think about
how big your market can be and what's
the most ambitious version of what
you're building. And so I would
encourage you to do this. There are so
many times where just the thought
exercise of doing something leads to a
great outcome. Another example is um
you know, you have a project uh that you
want to pursue and you ask the team, "If
you had half of the resources, what
would you do to still achieve this
goal?" And then that create creative
thinking that leads to better outcome.
Um Okay, we're almost at time. Uh I'll
ask
maybe one last question cuz we're at
time.
Um So is there one last piece of advice
that you want to leave the room with
each of you?
Um
They're you know, young people,
ambitious, willing to make a dent in the
world maybe. Uh what what can you tell
them?
>> Um So one thing that really helped us in
the beginning at Fohr Room was focusing.
And by that, I'll explain that initially
we started doing video and photo and we
focused 10x on photo and we grew 10x.
And then we focused on e-commerce photo
and we grew 10x again. So don't don't
confound don't don't misinterpret like
depth uh with ambition. Um so being deep
is actually a great way to achieve
ambition.
>> Well, we we came to the conclusion just
by by talking that you're going to have
some doubts. Like the fact that you grew
up in an environment that was not
naturally pushing us to be ambitious,
you're going to have to force yourself
to be more ambitious. And hopefully, by
using the tricks we talked about, it's
going to happen. You're going to aim
higher.
But the thing to keep in mind is that
you're going to have some doubts. So, if
you take back the example of
the the guy that applied at your company
and said, "Hey, I'm not going to work
because your team is too talented."
It's very useful to erase those doubts.
You will have them for sure, but just
set them aside. Say, "Okay, I know
they're here, but let's not talk about
something. Let's talk about something
else." And just this will allow you to
just
be more ambitious. Because otherwise, if
you listen to them too much, you may end
up in a situation of just yeah,
forgetting. And that applies to
everything. And one thing I would like
to add is that it's it's anyone can
really create a big company. I didn't
say it, but Matt was sitting in your
spot 12 12 years ago at Startup School.
>> Yeah, I did Startup School at Stanford
like 12 years ago. So, yeah. We are in
the seats and be ambitious and you can
do it.
>> Yeah.
>> Amazing. Thank you everyone. Thanks to
both of you. It was great.
>> [applause]