Title: Travis Kalanick at Startup School 2012
Video ID: rQ6GoY2_Ujw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rQ6GoY2_Ujw
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2013-10-25T10:40:45Z
Duration: PT28M49S
Views: 168087
Likes: 1897
Tags: Y Combinator, Travis Kalanick, Startup School, Uber, 2012, YC
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 732

Description:
Travis Kalanick, founder of Uber, at Y Combinator Startup School on October 20, 2012. Startup School is YC's free online program for founders. Sign up to access the full curriculum and over $100k in deals! https://www.startupschool.org/

Presented in Stanford Memorial Auditorium by Y Combinator and the Stanford Technology Ventures Program.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Wow, this is
awesome. Okay, this place is full. Um,
all right, so good to meet all of you.
My name is Travis Kalanick, uh,
co-founder CEO of Uber. Um, let's see.
So, I do a lot of speaking because we
are we're a a technology company that is
we're in the trenches. We're in the
cities. You know, more than half of our
employees are not in San Francisco. I
almost I don't even remember the last
time I spoke in San Francisco in front
of an audience. Um, every
time I go to speak somewhere, right, I
look I go on Google and I look at the
roads. I look at architecture. I look at
cool pictures I can put that are iconic.
And I'm going to speak in Silicon Valley
and I'm searching Google images and I
can't find
anything. And so, yeah, there you go.
It's good to be
here. Anyways, I found a little
something. Um, all right. So, guys, uh,
I'm I'm guessing most people here at
least know what Uber is, but for those
of you who don't, I'm going to go do a
sort of a basic tour just really quick.
Um, it's an app on your iPhone, um, that
helps you get a car. Uh, our motto is
everyone's private driver. And so you uh
you open up the app and you see a bunch
of cars that are near you. This is one
of San Francisco cars 3 minutes
away. And Jim will arrive in 2 minutes.
He's rated a 4.8. And this is of course
all screenshots from your app. When he
arrives, you're told, you're notified.
You can call the driver, of course, and
if you're lucky, he'll open the door for
you.
Um, when you're done, this is a short
trip, $15. That's our minimum in San
Francisco. Of course, we have lower cost
options now. We have something called
Uber X. A couple days ago, we launched
taxi in San Francisco. For a lot of
folks, they're like, "You're doing
taxis. You're the anti- taxi. What are
you doing?" We know what we're doing,
but
uh we'll get to that in just a second.
All right. So, some basics. Uh, launched
in June 2010. So, we're we're just over
two years old. Uh we don't own cars. We
don't employ drivers. A lot of people
don't know that about us. They think we
we have all these assets. They think
that we employ lots of drivers. We
don't. We have 120 employees, most of
which are not in San Francisco. Uh we
don't have a marketing
spend. Uh we're deployed in 17 cities.
For some reason, there's 16 here. Uh we
actually just soft launched in Sydney a
couple days ago, actually yesterday. Uh
Amsterdam is coming very very shortly.
Um and I think Minneapolis isn't on
here. We did that a couple weeks ago. So
quick numbers. Um hundreds of thousands
of hours driven per week. Uh a very
interesting engagement figure. 50% of
all the people who have ever ridden on
Uber have uh ridden in the last 30 days.
Um and remember when you ride you're
paying. So think about commerce. Think
about a commerce site or a commerce app
or 50% of the people who've ever paid
paid in the last 30 days. Um, average
person is paying about $105 a month. In
San Francisco, it's a bit higher than
that. Um, prices are probably a bit too
high. I know some of you have felt that
sting. Uh, we're doing 26% month-
over-month growth. That's an average
over the last now 16 17 months. You go,
okay, well, if you start really low,
then you can grow really big. But we are
pretty big. 12 months ago. And if you do
26% month- over-month growth, that means
in 12 months, you're 16 times bigger
than you were 12 months ago. So, we're
growing fast. And in fact, September
over August was 29% month
overmonth. So, I'm going to tell a
little bit about our background. Um, and
then hopefully, if I have enough time,
get into some of the regulatory stuff,
which I know none of you guys want to
hear
about. All right. So, this you can't see
really well because of all the lights,
but it's a romantic shot in front of the
Eiffel Tower between uh with me and my
co-founder Garrett Camp. Some of you
guys may know him. He was the founder of
Stumble Upon. It was in Paris at Leb
where we came up with this idea
essentially. You know, he said, "Look, I
just want to push a button and get a
ride. You know, let's and let's make it
a classy ride." And that's kind of how
we started. Paris in many ways is a
sister city of San Francisco. Impossible
to get a cab there.
Uh, so this is something from the past.
This is what we call hailing. I'm not
sure if you guys have ever done that,
but some people actually put their arm
out to get a cab. I don't I don't know
what's going on. It's a weird thing, but
this is what we used to see in San
Francisco. I went through that when we
first started. Actually, it wasn't about
taking over the world. It wasn't about
taking on corruption in every city
around the world. Um, it was actually
just about being baller in San
Francisco. And the only way to do it,
the the original idea was, "Let's go buy
10 S-classes. Let's hire 20 drivers and
let's get a parking garage." And I'm
like, "Garrett, we're not buying any
cars, dude. And we're not signing any
lease on a parking garage." Um, but the
idea of pushing a button and getting a
ride in within minutes was a magical
one. And at the beginning, it was a
lifestyle thing. It was S-classes for us
and our hundred friends. And so that's
where it started. In order to use the
app, you anybody could download it, but
in order to use it, you had to have a
special code that I gave you. Um, and
pretty soon the inbox was just getting
full of people who wanted the code
because our friends were telling their
friends and then, you know, I searched
on Google images is my favorite thing.
Uh, explosive viral growth on the
internet. And there you go. That was the
best one I could find. Um, we have this
thing called God View. Um, this is an
older version of God View. You can see
much more what's going on today, but I
can't show you the new version of God
View. It's too intense. Um, but, uh,
this is a screenshot of a Friday night
very soon after we launched, maybe a few
weeks or something like that. We had
four trips going on at the same time. We
were going nuts. We're like, there's
four trips. There's like we got trips
going on. We got a dispatch. The green
line at the top there, that's a
dispatch. He shouldn't have his arm up,
but he does. But he's got a he's got a
little briefcase, which is cool. Um,
that's Friday night early on. And now
this is 5:00 a.m. on a
Monday. The eyeballs, by the way, you
see some eyeballs every once in a while
in there. That's somebody opening an
app. So we see when people open apps
that helps us in demand prediction. Uh
remember we're a logistics company or
what I'd call we were building an urban
logistics
fabric. So when you do something
successful, not everybody's happy. Um,
and the older the industry you're
tackling,
um, the the more protected it is by
government or by corruption or by both,
the more they're going to be upset about
what you do. Um, we're making drivers
lives a hell of a lot better. They're
making a lot more money. They're making
ends meet. They're living their American
dream, and Uber's helping them do that.
Riders are getting around town much more
efficiently. I'm not sure who hurts from
this other than a particular incumbent
industry which I won't
mention. So, a few metrics. Look, when
I'm having a bad day, I just go to our
overall revenue
graph. Uh, this is a cool trick in
Photoshop. If you take that image and
you flip it, it's like a smile.
Okay. All right. That's just gratuitous.
Okay. Um, look, we launched in San Fr.
Oh, by the way, so this this is what 26%
month-over-month growth looks like. And
man, a lot of times when I show this,
when I when I do presentations in
cities, uh, we every time we launch in a
city, we do this big launch event, sort
of have some high rollers and people who
really make the city move. We sort of
pay our respects to that city and and do
a really nice dinner. and and these
folks are always leaning to the left
looking for the
axis. Um, when we first launched, first
of all, a lot of people go, "Wow, it's
successful. That's so obvious." I call
it the the hand to the palm to forehead
moment when they learn about Uber.
They're like, "I had this idea or I
should have had this idea." Um, when we
first launched, guys, it wasn't easy
getting our angel round. People thought
we were crazy. limos in San
Francisco. What? Um, but it took off,
like I said, and and so one of the
interesting things before we went to our
series A or sorry, this is actually
before our series B here, which we did
in November of last year, was is this a
one-hit wonder or not? Is this only
going to work in San Francisco because
it's so screwed up? And so we started
launching in other cities and this is a
revenue chart on a weekly it's a weekly
window or what you could think of as
like a almost a moving average. Um blue
is San
Francisco, yellow is New York. This is
early on. Uh the brown is Seattle and
the green there is Chicago. Now
obviously we're way past that now. Um
this was like sort of the first hundred
days. But what we found is that every
city we were rolling out, we were just,
hey, we didn't know if it was going to
work. Every city we were rolling out got
progressively better. Our operation side
of the house got very efficient. And
then the technology and the number of
people who knew about us when we go in.
We went into New York, we had a thousand
people with credit cards on file without
a car on the ground. So this wasn't a
one-hit wonder. And so we just started
launching a ton of cities. And we have
this double rainbow of
metrics. What does it mean? Um remember
as liquidity goes up, this is you know
people in the marketplace who are
building a marketplace know what
liquidity means. It means demand and
supply go up together. If they don't you
don't have a marketplace. Um in our
world as liquidity goes up the quality
of the experience goes up and it
dramatically right. So, our average
pickup times in San Francisco are 2
minutes and 45 seconds. When we first
started in New York, we were like
12minute average pickup times. And let
me tell you, you don't want to be
delivering 12-minute pickup times to New
Yorkers. They will kick your
ass. So, as it gets better, now we're
right around 5 minutes in New York, and
that's kind of when they lose their
minds. Um, as more people use it, you go
from the core user base to bigger, the
engagement actually gets deeper. the
number of rides per rider per month
actually go up as we
expand. Uh this is a cool cohort graph,
but who cares, right? The the bottom
line is that 50% of the people who've
ever used still use and we've seen that
from the
beginning. This is an interesting one.
This is San Francisco indexed revenue.
So we're getting there's lots of town
cars in San Francisco, right? The number
of town cars that there were in San
Francisco before we got there. um was
600. There are now more cars dedicated
to
Uber than there were town cars in San
Francisco when we got there. And so
you're like, "Well, this thing's going
to slow down. This train's going to slow
down at some point." We indexed San
Francisco revenue from last year, July
1st through the end of the year, and
looked at this year, July 1st, to where
we are now, and it's tracking almost
identical. So, it's not slowing down
anytime soon. And where you're talking
about for a particular city 20% month
overmonth it grow that's that's really
big growth especially when you're when
the the numbers are getting big. So on
the operations side, I think a lot of us
are techies. You know, I'm an engineer
by training. Um we know what product
managers are. We know what that means.
But when you're on the ground, when your
technology touches people and it touches
cities, um what you have to do is have
process managers. Process managers are
similar to product managers. They manage
the process that people do versus
machines. And the road map for product
has to dovetail with the road map for
process because anytime we change
anything that happens in a car that's
got to change the tech and vice versa.
Um so there's really interesting road
mapping processes that we go
through. Come on. Uh this is supposed to
be a picture of Europe. Um we're rolling
out very big in Europe right now. So
getting the operational expertise and I
think this just isn't talked a lot about
in startups is the operations side of
the business. I think a lot of
e-commerce companies see that. We see it
on a very deep level because you know
the rubber is actually meeting the road.
But getting teams ready to roll out in
Europe is something we've been spending
time. We're in Paris and London right
now. Like I said we're going to be in
Amsterdam very soon and there's a whole
host of other cities that were that are
lined up in Europe and that's going to
be a big push end of this year all the
way into the first half of next year.
Uh we have somebody in Asia ready to go
and um Sydney sort of our first city in
Asia pack. Um and I can't wait to go to
the launch party. Okay. All right. So
quality and choice. Uh it was really
interesting, right? We we had this
high-end thing. It's costs about 50%
more than a cab. And everybody said,
"Oh, it's high-end." And everybody goes,
"Wow, I'm going to do a lowcost Uber."
There's like a few companies out there,
I can't remember their names,
uh, that decide they're going to be a
lowcost Uber and they clone our app. You
know, they flatter us by basically
stealing all the pixels and copying them
over to their app. Um, Uber, FYI, Uber
is going to be the lowcost Uber. Um, but
it's about quality and choice. And what
we see when we low when we roll out a
lowcost option, what we see is that uh
actually engagement gets deeper because
people have choice. They don't have to
always get the expensive thing. So they
start using it more often. People who
maybe wouldn't start with the black car
product start with taxi or what we call
Uber X. Um and then it's date night and
they want to improve, you know, they
want to impress their lady or they just
need a comfortable ride. Um and it it
goes from there. So, um, this was, uh,
well, choice is a beautiful thing. Let's
keep moving. Um, taxi we did in Chicago
in April. Um, we now have a few cities.
We're in Boston, Toronto, Chicago, San
Francisco. We were in New York, but
we're not anymore. Uh, don't get me
started.
Fair enough. We'll get to that at the
end. Uh, we did Uber X, which is sort of
like a low-end Uber. um where and we did
this in July uh in San Francisco and New
York and that's where it's basically 30%
cheaper all hybrid fleet at least in SF
we're we're starting to diversify a
little bit out of hybrids because we
can't get the partners to buy cars fast
enough
um but the thing is is you push a button
and a car appears in 5 minutes and that
feels magical um but how you make that
happen is actually very complex uh so we
have a math department here they're I
like to tell them, I say, "Look guys,
you're in charge of our margins, right?
Because they need to get the pickup
times really low, but the utilization
really high. How do you do that?" Right?
Well, you do that through a lot of math.
But let's start with our math
department. Okay, that's not my math
department, but we have two nuclear
physicists on staff, a computational
neuroscientist,
uh a machine learning expert, and a few
other guys. They're they're killing it.
And some of the things they do uh they
do demand prediction, congestion
prediction, supply matching, supply
positioning, um uh smart dispatch
algorithms, uh dynamic pricing. Friday
and Saturday night are special nights.
Uh uh we sometimes get really big waves
of demand that you can't really get
enough cars to do anything about. So you
have a marketplace oriented sort of
dynamic pricing element uh that clears
the market. it gets more cars on the
road um and uh and sort of lassos in
sort of uncontrollable demand. You can't
see these pictures really well because
of the lights, but they're pretty. These
are some heat maps of cities. This is DC
right here, but you you guys probably
can't see it. This is Manhattan. Can't
you tell? Um
uh anyways, these are useless. I'll just
keep
going. Okay. All right. This right here
is what drivers see. This is our supply
positioning. So in in our company when
math goes operational that becomes
uh how am I doing on time by the way? I
have no timing here. Eight minutes left.
All right. Eight minutes left. All
right. This is going to suck. All right.
Um All right. So supply positioning,
right? We have a heat map of demand, but
I basically we're predicting demand 20
minutes ahead of time. The problem is is
that if I gave the heat map to drivers,
right, they'll all go to the same spot
and then that'll be bad for a lot of
people who aren't in that hot spot. So
what we do is we say here's the heat map
of demand or prediction for 20 minutes
ahead of time. But where is the supply
right now? That's anti heat. That sucks
the heat out of the map. What's left
over is residual heat, underserved
demand. And we do that on a neighborhood
by neighborhood basis. We'll ultimately
go continuous on it. Uh the math is very
tricky and complex and computationally
intensive. Um but that gives you a sense
of some of the things we do. That's in
car. You don't see it because once you
get in the car, he's on trip and he
doesn't see that map anymore. Dynamic
pricing. Um I talked a little bit about
that already. Uh we have uh one of our
nuclear physicist guys is a big uh San
Francisco Giants fan. Clearly we have to
look at events in the city because that
affects demand in a big way. Uh when the
Giants play, of course, demand is huge.
When the Giants win, it's much huger
than when they
lose because people want to go out in
style, you know? Um, they want to go to
the bars. They're just feeling good.
Actually, what's interesting is in
Boston, when they lose, when the Red Sox
lose, we actually have bigger
demand. No joke. Here's what's really
interesting. Uh, it's not enough to make
money yet. Oh, I just gave away the
punchline. But basically that huge
uptick in demand when the when the Giant
San Francisco Giants win starts about
three hours before the game
begins. Uber Vegas is going to take on a
whole new
meaning. Okay, so I'm going to really
speed through here and I this sucks
because there's so much cool regulatory
stuff I could have talked about, but uh
giving riders high fives. Uh look,
transportation is thought of as a boring
space. It's boring. Well, until you push
a button and a a car magically appears.
But we basically have lots of people who
love us and how do we get them to tell
that story over and over again? Give
them an excuse to tell the Uber story.
Um, so we do a lot of creative things. I
think a lot of you guys have seen that.
Um, but uh, look, Valentine's Day, we
distribute tens of thousands of roses to
thousands of drivers. Every girl who got
in a car after 4 p.m. was handed a rose
by the driver. That's a strong move,
fellas. I call it I call this scaling
romance.
Okay. Uh on in President's Day um in DC,
we uh did what we call an Uber Cade.
Okay. Escalade, town car, Escalade,
American flags all the way down. One out
of every 20 people that push the button,
an Uber Cade rolls up.
The the driver The driver has an
earpiece that makes them look like
Secret Service. And as you're driving
through town, kids are like waving.
They're like knocking on the
window. We did something in uh we did
something in South by Southwest. We got
pettic cabs cuz you don't do a town car
in South by. That's just douchy. Like
don't do that. But a pettic cab, let's
do this, right? So, uh, we did that.
That's cool. 100 pettic cabs. You push a
button, pettic cab takes you wherever
you want to go. But we took 10 of those
pettic cabs and we outfitted them with
these containers that could hold Texas
barbecue. So, we did on demand Texas
barbecue. You push the button and a cow
would come to you on the
map. We did ice cream in July. And every
time we roll out a city, um, we do
what's called rider zero. The first
person to get in an Uber when we soft
launch. This used to be an organic thing
that just happened. And then the my city
team started getting excited about it.
This is Edward Norton taking the first
Uber in Los Angeles to go
surfing. So we give riders high fives.
Um, but we give drivers hugs. And that's
because look, the riders, you know, they
date night goes well, they get to their
business meeting on time or they're not
stranded a certain part of town. But for
a driver who's scrapping, who maybe has
a few hours in the morning and one or
two hours in the evening or in the
afternoon booked, filling out that time
with a consistent revenue stream helps
him make ends meet. And so you go from
just barely making ends meet to really
making a living and then investing in
your business. We have drivers who've
gone from one car to
15. Each of those cars grossing more
than 100 grand a year. So these guys are
living their American dream. This is
Riad. He actually was hustling one of
our engineers early on. Our engineers
were getting unlimited Uber. He's like,
I got it. We're cool, but why don't you
come join Uber? He did. He's the highest
performing driver on the system. He
makes 20 to 30% more per hour. Most
productive driver on the system uh than
all the other drivers. Uh he also is the
highest rated driver. We still haven't
figured out how he does what he does. Um
he now has five cars on the system. He
recently had his firstborn uh a son.
Named his son after our
engineer. That's not funny. Like that's
for real. All right. This is Hanie. Uh
he's a comedian. Been in the city for
about 25 years. He uh or he thinks of
himself as a comedian. Every time I get
in the car, he tells me he used to be a
Chip and Dales dancer.
This is Steve Aziz. And guys, just
somebody signal when I'm running out of
time. I have no idea. I'll go over and
spend an hour up here if you let me. Two
minutes. Okay. All right. Uh Steve Aziz
uh has 15 or sorry, 20 cars on the
system. He started with one. He's got
five kids. Told me I had a six going and
a six on the way. Um that's funny. Uh I
said, "Steve, six kids? You're crazy.
What are you doing, dude? That's nuts.
You got a business to run." He's like, I
got I got to keep the Uber the Uber
fleet
growing. His son there doesn't look too
happy to be part of the Uber fleet. Uh
well, I could talk about regulation. Um
I I'd spend a couple minutes. Uh the
bottom line is uh and I can't go through
a bunch of slides because I really don't
have the time. Well, I don't know. Let's
just go until somebody stops me. This is
a New York City medallion. That's the
license to basically own and operate a
single taxi in New York. Um, the number
of taxis or medallions in New York, it's
the blue bar there, the dark blue. Uh,
it's basically been flat since
1946. The same number of taxis that were
in the city in 1946,
uh, is the same number of taxis that are
out there today. That value of that
medallion is worth about a million
dollars a pop. There are 13,000
medallions in the city of New York. So,
you have 13 billion dollars directed at
keeping Uber from being successful.
uh DC, we had a really interesting
situation. Uh we went there. By the way,
we are, as far as we could tell, we are
totally legal. White glove legal. Nicest
laws in the country in terms of sedans
in DC. But DC taxi commissioner goes out
there and says Uber's not legal. Um
because they charge by time and
distance. And let's just say that was
real. Why is charging by distance
evil? I don't understand. I don't get
it. But he said, "Look, you're charging
by time and distance. You're not
allowed." Well, we looked at the law.
Law says, "Sedan, a four higher vehicle
designed to carry fewer than six
passengers, which charges for service on
the basis of time and mileage." Like,
what are you talking about? He's going
in public forums, Washington Post, etc.
We go to the attorney general in the
District of
Columbia, and that's what he tells us.
So, when you read about the crazy stuff
we're doing in the cities, and I've got
to close this down because I'm
somebody's going to have the hook and
they're going to take me off here. But
when you read about the crazy stuff that
we're doing in the
cities, know that it is corrupt out
there. Know that we are highly, highly
disruptive and what you read in the
papers isn't always true. Um, and the
bottom line is that in order to be in
this business, uh, in order to be this
disruptive to what's going on, you have
to have you have to be willing to to
fight. Uh, and you have to not be you
can't be shy. Um, so that gives you a
little bit about it. Basically, they
tried to put a floor on our prices. I'll
leave it at this one, this last one
here. They put a floor on our prices uh
or try to pass what they call the Uber
amendment. uh make our prices five times
that of a taxi. Um they rolled the
amendment out July 10th. It was a Monday
at sorry July 9th. The vote on the bill
was the 10th.
Sorry. They put the bill out on the 9th.
That was a Monday at 4 p.m. to vote on
at 11:00 a.m. the next day. 18 hours,
most of which are going to be sleeping.
I wrote an email to our consumers
letting them know that they are about to
do this. And by the way, the rationale
was to ensure that basically we don't
compete. If a CEO of a company to said
something like this, they'd be in jail.
But if you corrupt your politicians and
then push those laws down, it's totally
legal. Anyways, we did uh something
called Life Liberty in the pursuit of
Uberness. Uber DC love was a hashtag. Uh
18 hours later, we had 50,000 original
emails. These weren't robo emails. Um
that went to city council people telling
them not to vote for it. 37,000 tweets,
104 million social media impressions,
and we won.
And as you might imagine, there wasn't a
lot of sleep during that time, but it
was so short, it maybe didn't matter.
So, anyways, guys, uh I think the the
bottom line, I've got so much stuff.
Vegas, by the way. Uh gambling and
prostitution are legal legal in Vegas,
but Uber is
not. I got so much stuff. I probably
have to end this. Um, I'll just end with
just a couple more slides here, guys.
And I'm sorry about this. Um, look,
technology is wiring up the core
services in city life, right? Airbnb,
US, a bunch of other companies. They're
changing not just tech, not just your
Twitter app, they're changing how you
live. Um, but that change used to happen
over decades. It's now happening over
months. Quality of life is not red, it's
not blue, it's just people, right?
Um, cities that resist are going to feel
backwards. And there are cities we're
not in, they feel backwards, right? A
lot of our customers who are used to
this, go to other cities, it doesn't
work. Uh, so I asked the mayors, "What
are you protecting? Who are you
protecting?" They don't even realize.
They just don't even realize that
they're protecting. They think the taxi
industry, they think drivers. No, you're
actually screwing over drivers. Um, so
cities need transportation alternatives,
but they need modern, accountable,
convenient, stylish, and efficient ones.
Uh we're out there in a city near you
guys. And look, I appreciate being here.
Is a lot of fun.