Title: Open Models Change The Economics of AI
Video ID: rY0wnfFHYbs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rY0wnfFHYbs
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-09-04T14:00:10Z
Duration: PT57M16S
Views: 110057
Likes: 672
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1747

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

cost is by far the largest pain point
that open models can jump in and solve.
But you know, every business has a
vision of getting better control over AI
and customizing it for their business.
And that's really their north star. You
know, cost is something they can solve
in the short term, but it then enables
them to then go and and customize these
models for their unique use case.
>> Early 2024, there was lots of interest
in fine-tuning your own custom models.
Then it sort of went away and all of
that it will just be wasted effort.
it'll get stomped by the next model
release. Seems like it's coming back
now. You have a front seat to all of it.
Do you think we're going through like
another cycle or is it here to stay this
time?
[music]
Welcome back to another episode of the
Lite Cone. Today we're talking to
Jeffrey Morgan, co-founder and CEO of
Olama, the easiest way to run open
source AI models locally and in the
cloud. Alama is used by 9 million
developers, has 178,000 GitHub stars,
and is used by 85% of the Fortune 500,
which means Jeff knows a lot about the
state-of-the-art of AI, what models
score highest on benchmarks, and what
developers actually download and keep
using. Jeff, welcome to the Lite Cone.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> We're down to here. Like, what is the
state-of-the-art? What are you seeing
out there? Well, I think the biggest
thing we're seeing is a shift to open
models, especially in enterprise and
that's from a mix of US and and Chinese
origin models and it's predominantly
driven by coding agents and also AI
assistants more co-work cases like
openclaw and Hermes
>> and because you sit in the token flow of
like so many tokens you have really good
data on what models people are actually
using and how it's changing. What are
the trends that you're seeing? Yeah, you
know, started as a way to run open
models on your MacBook or other
hardware, Nvidia, AMD, Intel, and um
earlier this year, we launched Alama's
cloud. And what we're seeing there is
that it's predominantly Chinese models
right now of Chinese origin. Um but
they're being accessed by businesses all
over all over the world. Um especially
US and and Germany is actually a big
source of where open model tokens are
being accessed.
>> Is it all about cost? Is it are
enterprises coming because they just
want to get the cost down or is there
anything more to it?
>> Cost is by far the largest pain point
that open models can jump in and solve
but you know every business has a vision
of getting better control over AI and
customizing it for their business and
that's really their north star. You know
cost is something they can solve in the
short term but it then enables them to
then go and and customize these models
for their unique use case.
>> Is there a particular uh large
enterprise that you can name that has
done this? I think there was a great
article in the information yesterday uh
from AT&T and it ends up they've already
shifted 40% of their token consumption
to open models and that's right now
predominantly through US uh and and
Europe models but they're also
evaluating the Chinese models.
>> What kind of workflows do they run?
>> Predominantly coding agents. I think
what we've seen just from the extreme
growth and you know per developer or per
user token usage has predominantly been
from coding agents and then earlier in
March and April we saw open claw take
off and subsequently the Hermes project
the Hermes agent project take off which
has then opened up that ability to
automate a huge chunk of work over a
long span of time to non-developers too
whether it's like finance or support or
marketing or sales. you had this
actually very cool graph on the takeoff
exponential for for OpenClaw.
>> Yeah. So earlier this year, you know,
this is a graph of token usage by
developer on Olama's cloud. You know,
the average amount of tokens they use
per week and we kind of
>> this is per developer. So like it looks
this graph looks like it should be an
aggregate of Lama's growth, but this is
actually the per user.
>> Exactly. [laughter]
>> This is on an individual user user
basis. how many tokens are they using a
week? And so there's kind of like two
big inflection points. One is that
initial runup at the start of the year
which was driven by coding agents. So we
saw Kimmy, the GLM models, Miniaax
launch. Finally, we had open models that
could power coding agents. And then in
April, we saw this incredible growth
from OpenClaw really, which was then not
just developers, but the rest of the
world could take a hard problem, give it
to an open model, and let it go complete
the task, which obviously consumes a ton
of tokens as it's figuring out what
tools to use, what data to go fetch. We
went from a context window of 128K to a
million plus with open models. And so
all that enabled this explosive growth.
So it went from uh roughly 5x so under
somewhere around I don't know 15 million
tokens before before all these core work
type of use cases.
>> I think that's about right for that open
claw jump we saw in April. Um obviously
in aggregate it's you know in the 10 to
20x if not more as a whole through cloud
we saw 150x since the start of the year
and so it's just the big you know
interesting thing here is this huge
surge in demand for open models right
whereas open models I'd say in 2024 2025
from the large models being served were
mostly being served as custom models so
you'd take an off-the-shelf model like
deepseek or kimmy and you'd fine-tune it
for your use case um like for example
you know cursor had famously done and
from there, you know, you could serve
that at scale. But seeing out of the box
open models being served, that really
only took off at the start of this year.
Even since we started this podcast,
these things sort of come in cycles
maybe. Like I feel like early 2024 there
was lots of interest in fine-tuning your
own custom models. Then it sort of went
away and it's like all that it will just
be wasted effort. It'll get stomped by
the next model release. Seems like it's
coming back now. You have a front seat
to all of it. Like what's do you think
we're going through like another cycle
or is it here to stay this time?
>> I think the release of these models the
cadence is only speeding up which makes
it ever more harder to you know stay on
top of that and have a a post
>> you mean the the the latest closed
frontier models are releasing faster
than ever. I
>> think on the open source side it's
getting faster and faster. You know this
summer we've already seen three
iterations of the Deepseek Flash model
as an example. um what used to be more
of a six-month cycle.
>> Yeah. So the gap is like closing
essentially
>> closing and I think that makes it even
harder to custom train models. On the
flip side, I think the tooling is
getting better and so it allows teams
that want to fine-tune their models to
stay on top of it.
>> I mean, we're also entering this moment
where AI safety is becoming more and
more of an issue at uh the Frontier
Labs. So the frontier uh may well slow
down to figure out its alignment and
containment issues. And then meanwhile
the open source models and openw weight
models are continuing to grow and get
better.
>> Yeah. And you know we saw the
announcement and the release of the
GLM53 model and its capabilities from a
cyber security standpoint you know being
extremely impressive. it creates a big
opportunity for whether it's startups or
existing businesses in the security and
governance space to really jump in and
help because I think if you look at you
know that AT&T article I was speaking
about it largely the the blocker to
adopting open models is largely around
security and safety
>> um but from our experience talking to
customers whether it's in Europe whether
it's here in the US if you can solve the
safety problems by and large adopting
the Chinese origin model labs is
completely on the table and it's really
exciting for these businesses
>> there's sort of this interesting moment
right now where a hugging face had to
use openweight models to actually even
detect the hack from the frontier.
>> A common question we get is like well
where where can I use open models that
are leaps and bounds of an advantage
over uh using a frontier closed model
and one of the key use cases is security
testing and making sure that you know
your software is secure.
>> Yeah. Because like if you try to get
claw to like pentest your product it
will just refuse to do that.
>> Correct. Yeah. By and large. Whereas
there are literally obliterated uh
security researcher models that you can
find on hugging face that allow you to
do it.
>> That is true. There are ones that are
are you know customtrained to be you
know even more you know liberal to to go
and attack these problems. But even the
out of the box models um they they do
come with safety training but they're a
little better understanding if you're
doing this for you know a good you know
use case versus versus one that's more
of a negative or you know malicious use
case. A cool thing about is that because
you guys are such a key distribution
channel for these models, my
understanding is that typically the
model developers are contacting you
before the general release to like
coordinate launches and stuff like that
and you often get sort of like previews
of what's about to about to happen and
you get these incredible growth spikes
when a new model drops. Like I wonder if
you could like tell us a bit about like
what it's like to operate this thing at
scale.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And like I said
before, the models are coming out faster
and faster and faster. And so we've
developed a playbook to what does a
successful day zero model launch look
like? And there are a lot of things to
get right. There's making sure that it's
supported in your favorite inference
engine, which is generally sometimes a
multi-week process to make sure it's
fast, to make sure it's accurate, to
make sure it's up to spec with the
reference. There's also finding the
right use cases and harnesses for
developers and users to make use of this
model. Generally, these models have new
capabilities. This morning, you know,
there's announced Deepseek launched
their first multimmoal model um from a
large model LLM standpoint. They had
previously had some smaller OCR models,
which unlocks a whole bunch of use
cases. But what they also changed was
the Deep Seek harness, which launched
recently so that it could support this
capability. So step two is then to find
the harnesses, make sure they're
prepared to actually run this model and
to do that effectively. But you know,
every model's different. They all have
different challenges and architecture
changes and tool calling mechanics and
getting all this right is really hard. I
think the key thing to do at the end of
the day is to run benchmarks against the
final product ahead of release and make
sure that you know it's it's running as
as it as the research team at the lab
specified. So I think one very important
part that you play in the whole
ecosystem is you kind of create a very
legible standard to be able to make sure
you have the best way to use the
hardness for each new model each new
tool call and all of it is consistent
across all the different models which is
pretty hard to do. Yeah, I think there
are three things really that you know we
try to package together. One is a
harness for example, you know, whether
it's an off-the-shelf harness or an SDK
to help use the model. Some existing
harness that is designed for this and
and what's great now there's so many
great open source harnesses. Um the
codeex harness is open source. Uh open
code's a great one and one of the most
popular harnesses from OAMI users. Step
one's getting that right, but then you
got to package it with the model, making
sure that it's, you know, available,
it's reliable, if it's in the cloud,
that there's enough capacity for it
because day zero tends to be the largest
growth day obviously. And then
importantly, there's the hardware and
the providers. And that's actually where
there's a lot of collaboration to be had
whether it's like an inference provider
optimizing the model or you know with
some of our partners whether it's Nvidia
or or you know for example working with
the Apple silicon stack making sure that
it actually runs the model really fast
because if the model's capable but it's
really slow that's not a great
experience. So getting those three
things packaged into a box and generally
you get the model you're lucky if
there's a you know the ability to access
the model a few weeks in advance. A lot
of this stuff comes together in the last
24 hours before the model gets released
and so it's generally a fire drill.
>> So you're kind of almost a like an
operating system in the old world where
you needed to really integrate very
tightly with all the drivers, all the
hardware and then at the application
level to make sure that all the apps
were really tuned up well and you are
the glue for all of it. Right? I do
think the OS, which is generally a
cliche analogy to use, is a good one
because you've got the drivers for the
hardware and the providers and the
inference layer, but you also have the
application runtime and making sure that
the harness works. Gluing that together,
it's a very combinatorically large
problem to solve. And so doing that well
is really difficult. And so, but you
know, over time you develop pieces that,
you know, allow you to quickly develop
that, test it, release it, um, and kind
of have this common runtime that can
match any harness to any model. And
that's kind of the role we're really
playing for developers.
>> You guys are very hardcore engineers and
you fine-tune things all the way to from
the origins with Apple silicon all the
way now to DJX. How do you build such a
deep technical bench with that? I think
a lot of our team, you know, we aren't
AI researchers by background. We're from
VMware and Docker, um, and from, you
know, other networking companies. And so
the classic compute problems are kind of
reinventing themselves in the inference
land, whether and and so largely, you
know, that's where we like to focus our
time. But I think at the end of the day,
you know, it all comes down to the
developer experience. What is it like
when the developer makes a call to the
API and gets tokens back? What happens?
And it there's more and more happening
in that layer right now. And getting
that right needs all the layers of the
stack to work well together. And I think
you know one of the challenges with open
models has been that hasn't been
happening at the rate of what a frontier
model lab puts out where they have you
know the classic five layer cake right
that Jensen mentioned which is like the
apps you have you know the model you
have the infrastructure and inference
you've got the chips and you got the
energy and they've got all that ready to
go for developers on day zero. And
that's really the thing that we're
trying to reproduce for open models. Of
course, we're not going to do every
layer of the stack, but we can help
orchestrate that.
>> You layer the lay layers.
>> Yeah. And maybe in open models, there's
more than five layers. Like that model
layer actually has a lot to it, right?
There's the model weights, but there's
also a lot of the orchestration
components that each model is uniquely
good at. There's this developer API
layer. There's so many opportunities to
build between the model and the
application layer that are kind of
hidden in today's, you know, five layer
cake stack.
>> That's interesting. Do you do you think
any of those like hidden layers might
get unbundled and become their own
companies or providers?
>> Absolutely. There was a really good talk
from some of the anthropic team, the
platform team, and they talked about
three big things. One was knowledge. How
do you connect your company's data and
context to the model? One is
coordination. So, as as you know, when
you make a request to in your cloud app
or codecs, it goes off and spins out a
bunch of sub aents, some of those in the
cloud, some locally, there's a
coordination problem. Um and then lastly
there's an execution problem which you
know we talk a lot about as sandboxes
but these agents more and more of them
are moving to the cloud. There's a huge
compute problem to be solved there. And
if you look at what's happened
classically and in the cloud business
open source has meant that there are
best of breed companies for each of
those problems. Whereas you might have
had kind of the if you look back to the
original generation cloud products you
have like the Herokus of the world you
have Google app engine all those things
were bundled together. But what
developers ended up preferring is best
of breed products for each one.
>> It's the nalism which is uh all things
are just bundling or unbundling like the
frontier model frontier model labs want
you to be totally in their walled garden
of manage agents and their context their
memory layer. And then meanwhile little
tech and all the founders out there and
all the open source developers uh don't
want to be caged in so we're going to
make all this other stuff and it'll
it'll be an interesting moment to figure
out like what ends up winning. I mean
it'll probably be some mix of both.
>> I think so. And you know you've got this
abundance of open model tokens that's
being created. There are just dozens of
open model providers that are able to
serve these tokens. The new scarcity the
problems now are what's above the tokens
right? You know how do you orchestrate
an agent from you know A to B. These are
problems that are have tons of new you
know systems and and engineering
problems that are just really hard to
solve for an individual dev. Like
there's no way they're going to build
all those layers. Well, the interesting
thing now is um because the coding
agents themselves are getting a lot
better and ostensibly this is the worst
the models will ever be. The classic
reason why there was a moat here was it
was just too hard to have really
well-maintained software that was
properly tested that actually satisfied
user need. And what if that goes away?
Like we're literally at this moment
where actually maybe the a you know
you'll just have a curron and it runs a
markdown file in some TypeScript and
it'll just you know there's no lock in
anymore right like you could be using
OpenAI's memory system one day and then
actually you know you could have an
agent be uh constantly syncing that
against your own memory system and
actually it just works it's fine like it
works over MCP like there's all you know
there's plenty of like runtime testing
and then there's no lock in.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of the, you know,
what we know of as harnesses today, a
lot of those pieces will go down into
the model. But, you know, as you kind of
push a lot of the core loop of the model
and hooks down to the model itself,
there are these pieces that kind of come
out like memory is a great one. And the
the general guidance we're using is if
it's a stateful problem like there's
storage involved that's something that
you know in the end can't go into the
model because the model's trained and
it's you know as we know training runs
are now happening on like a monthly
basis but it's still not up to date with
the latest data. So generally storing
data is like a huge problem space that I
don't think will ever make its way down
into the model layer
>> like managing credentials and that kind
of stuff isn't
>> security credentials safety um open
models don't have all the safety tooling
that closed model providers give you out
of the box but that's super important
especially for businesses to adopt them.
I'm curious where you see sort of the
the end or future state for enterprise
on the balance between sort of frontier
closed models and open source model um
especially on spend like my it feels
like you know initially it was just the
everyone's just like allocating all of
their budget to anthropic or um open AI
uh my sense now is yes open a open open
source is clearly growing but like so
are so is like anthropic spread so like
the things seem to be growing together
like does that continue or Do you think
there's sort of like a steady state
where it's like I don't know like half
the budget's going to be on the closed
source frontier model and half's going
to be in open source or or something
different?
>> The super majority of tokens and this is
our take it will be open models within a
business. Call it 80 90%. That doesn't
mean 89% of the the budget will go to
open models. In fact, I think what the
open model community is doing incredibly
well together is lowering the cost to
make it more accessible. And so maybe
you'll only pay 10 to 20% uh of of the
cost towards open models, but your token
>> most of your tokens will be going
through the open models,
>> right? Which will enable a whole bunch
of use cases on top because you have
this abundance of tokens. You're not
thinking about taking away token access
from your team. You're giving more and
more access. I think for the hardest
tasks that's reserved for these frontier
labs where a lot of the best researchers
are. And then from there, there's a
whole bunch of problems in the middle,
right? Where maybe it's a combination of
open and closed models working together.
I think the steady state is that most of
the software is most of the models are
open. It's kind of an interesting idea
because as the models get more powerful,
ideally you just want to delegate to
like your smartest model to figure out
when to go to like an open model, but
the labs who own the models presume you
don't want that.
>> And I think look, I think that all the
labs are aligned in many ways to one
thing, which is how do you serve the
customer? And I think it will be up to
the customer to decide if I have a
router where some of the scheduling and
harder you know orchestration happens
through a frontier model so be it. But a
lot of the kind of
line item work can happen through open
models and the collaboration of the two
together. I think we've seen a ton of
projects whether it's from Sakana AI or
open router that have combined the two
and it's seen really good results.
>> This is not too dissimilar from a human
organization, right? Like you have you
know like a law firm there's like a
partner and then there's like a bunch of
associates and like the partner farms
out the work to the the associates,
right? It's like the same. [laughter]
>> We saw the same thing with cloud
computing where it was really a blend of
proprietary software. some of them
provided by the the cloud providers
themselves. For example, you know, AWS
had Dynamo DB which was kind of their
proprietary scale out database. But then
a lot of customers use that in
conjunction with Postgress DB and in the
end you know what we see is customers
will will use a combination of the two.
>> I think it's a very common pattern. This
is also the same design for why the
Apple silicon is actually more superior.
the special spe special special
accelerators for different kinds of
workloads for let's say image processing
supposed to audio that's been or even go
way back in in in the PC era you had
like your standalone audio card right
graphics card and all that
>> and speaking of Apple Silicon should we
talk about local models because you're
you're in a bit of a unique position
because you have large businesses both
in cloud hosted models and locally
hosted models that will run on your
laptop what are you seeing in those two
worlds and What what do you think is
going to happen?
>> I think it's incredibly exciting because
it's similar to the closed versus open
model question. It'll be a mix in our
mind and and that's what we hear from
customers as well where for easier tasks
you could run them locally and with
lower latency and of course lower cost
when it comes to the per token cost.
Ultimately, you're buying hardware up
front and you'll use that in conjunction
with these cloud models. What's exciting
about this next generation of hardware,
which we've had for a few years now, is
just how good they are at running the 20
billion parameter to 40 billion
parameter range of models. Sometimes up
to 128 billion parameters.
>> Yeah. Quinn 3.8 38B is now as good as
Opus 4.6 for coding. Is that right?
>> That's what the benchmark show.
>> It's incredibly exciting because you can
run that on not the the the lowest
memory MacBook, but the second lowest
memory MacBook you can buy from the
store. So it's incredible.
>> And are you seeing your users do that?
Like what are you seeing people use the
local models versus the cloud hosted
models for in practice
>> from the side of which models they're
running? We're seeing a really solid mix
of US and Chinese trained models being
used for local and we have the
incredible models from you know the
original llama models of course but also
the Gemma models from DeepMine. These
are great choices for local. But when it
comes down to use cases coding agents by
and large are most effective with the
large cloud models. You're solving
really hard problems. you're writing
code tests, it's really difficult uh
versus some of the document processing
workflow use cases that run extremely
well locally because they don't have as
difficult of a of a task in the
endto-end, you know, problem you're
trying to solve. And so that's where we
see this hybrid execution model where
some of the easier, more straightforward
tasks run locally and then you have a
router that can help decide, hey, we
need to go to a large cloud model for
this. And I think what that means for
customers is that you're you're really
dropping the costs even further when
you're going from open models. Not just
because they're cheaper to run in the
cloud, but because now you can run them
effectively for free on the hardware
you're buying for your business anyways.
And what we're seeing ultimately from
the cloud coding agent models is it is
predominantly Chinese models being
consumed today. And for the local
models, it's a really strong blend of uh
US, Europe, and and Chinese origin
models. Yeah, this these two graphs are
pretty stunning in comparison. Like
basically for local models, the US and
Chinese models are neck andneck. We're
like tied. And for cloud hosted models,
like the US is like recoloring the
x-axis. It's like 100% Chinese models.
Basically, we need more US labs to make
large models. Is is is is that what this
graph is showing
>> effectively? And you know, with the
launch of the Neotron Ultra model, we're
seeing kind of the first wave of that
and it's really exciting. Nvidia as a
company is so interesting because um
their moat is not like trying to start
new software businesses or sell you know
tokens. They seem to be quite interested
in just releasing a lot of open- source
and helping the ecosystem and then the
fact that they do that then helps them
stay ahead of the game on the hardware
side.
>> I think so. And you know ultimately
Nvidia what's so incredible is there's
helping power an ecosystem around open
models whether that's the hardware the
models you know we've seen the uh new
DGX station uh computers that they're
working on which have GB300 on your
desk.
>> How do we get on that list that isn't
deafening loud?
>> Yeah. Do you know the price point on
that thing yet?
>> I don't know it off the bat.
>> Gary's buying it. [laughter]
>> I know, right? Well, I looked it up.
It's like I mean you can probably run a
Frontier model for like I mean very
slowly for like two two $300,000. Is
that is that right?
>> I think it's even more competitive than
that. Yeah.
>> And you can run more than a Frontier
model at high speeds at a price point
that isn't very far off what you can buy
from a classic workstation computer.
>> Oh, no way.
>> You think about, you know, quite a few
of the customers we talked to, some of
them are banks, for example, or
industrial businesses. They already have
these Nvidia workstation GPUs in every
single engineer's desk. Some of them
tens of thousands of them. And so this
is one.
>> They've been selling them for all the
CAD work.
>> Well, this is for this is for the kind
of original RTX A6000s, but this is the
next generation.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to have to email
Jensen.
>> This was at this was at GTC. So, what we
see here was at GTC. And we were one of
the first uh people along with Elon and
a few others to receive the DJX Spark as
well
>> which sits on your desk and provides
>> you know 128 GB of unified memory to run
that kind of 20 to 120B model range but
obviously that's just the beginning of a
whole new range of hardware that can run
the biggest models.
>> So did you say you can buy a bunch of
these and chain them and actually run a
400B model?
>> You can absolutely. They they have this
really fast network link and so you can
stack them on your desk almost like a
miniature uh data center rack and
>> people do with the Mac minis.
>> Absolutely.
>> Now this is like the production version
of it.
>> I think that's what's so exciting is
you're seeing both from Apple and Nvidia
this incredibly incredible leap to next
generation hardware that's built for
these models and is effective at running
them. So you'd say like this is this is
the platform to get like you could make
stu apple studios work but like if you
want something that just can work get
DGX spark
>> from our testing both are very
competitive. Got it.
>> So I think a lot of it come down to what
you can get and and then also um the
tech stack you're looking for. I think
there's an incredibly uh mature tech
stack through the MLX project with Apple
where they've done some amazing work to
run LLMs on the Mac Studio but also the
smaller Macs and of course the DJX Spark
stacks. just incredible. We're super
excited uh as partners with Nvidia for
that.
>> I think it's going to be a cool
renaissance for personal desktops.
>> I think so. And you know, it's it's
funny with Olama's journey. We started
local. Clearly, the coding agent demand
is in the cloud, but that's going to
come back locally in our minds because
the hardware will catch up. When you
have a GB300 on your desk and you want
the fastest coding loop, that's as fast
as running your tests or as fast as
making code editor change. We all
remember the GitHub copilot experience
of having the autocomplete come up in a
few millisecond at 100 milliseconds.
That experience will make its way back
to the desk which is which has been a
journey of starting local going to the
cloud and then we think that'll come
back local and you'll end up using the
two together.
>> Speaking of like what you can get in
order to run a Llama cloud, you need
like a ton of GPUs. What are you
seeing in the GPU market?
>> I think what we're seeing is ultimately
the prices are changing very quickly and
the supply and demand volatility is is
very high there. And so, you know, I
think ultimately
for if you're a startup, getting access
to some of the B200, B300 GPUs you need
to run these latest models is very hard.
Thankfully, there's a great set of
inference providers building on top of
that. And so we're seeing this extreme
demand on like you know and and when
>> are you able to get all the GPUs that
you need? Are you constantly like like
growth limited by how many GPUs you can
get your hands on? What's the what's the
current state? We're lucky that we've
partnered with quite a few providers to
work together to pull a bunch of GPUs
together, which allows us to stay on top
of our our demand, but that's a lot of
work and it's definitely a lot of
spending time thinking through, you
know, which model will get run where,
how fast should it be, which region is
it in, um what will the latency be for
the customer? There's a lot of hard
problems to solve in that stack. And I
think what's really exciting about
products like Open Router, Alama, the
Open Code project is for an end user
developer, they can sign up and get
access to this without having to go
negotiate prices on a B200, B300. You
know, think about their 24-month
forecast in order to get access to some
of these these uh you know, GPUs.
>> YC's Next Batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early. and filling out
the app will level up your idea. [music]
Okay, back to the video.
>> Suppose you were like a a startup
founder and you were just starting out
now and you're building some AI company
and you haven't raised a lot of money
and so you like want to like use as many
tokens as possible like inexpensively
like what would your advice be to that
person about like how they can get like
huge mileage with like a limited budget?
There's this new class of models like
DeepSeek Flash is a great example and I
think there'll be quite a few more where
it's ultra low cost per token. It's also
low cost per task which is a really
important metric and that class of
models in my mind will be the first ones
that come down to this idea of like
unlimited tokens. We all remember Chad
GBT. You didn't really have to think
about how many tokens you were using.
You would just use it every day. You had
unlimited. Ultimately, I think we return
to that, but it's going to take a lot of
work in the model, the architecture to
be customtrained for high volume token
usage. And if you think about the start
of the year, we really wanted open
models got to the frontier of
intelligence. We bridge the gap. We're
maybe like less than 3 months behind
between the frontier closed models and
the open models. But the next problem to
solve is extreme efficiency. Seeing, for
example, the GBT Luna model become very,
very price effective for customers has
been a huge boom. We talked a ton of
customers where that kind of pricing
enables widespread adoption within a
team. I think we're going to see that
with open models. We already are seeing
that with open models. I think the
Deepseek flash model is leading that
charge. If we go back to the model
breakdown on OAM's cloud, the highest
growth area is definitely the Deepseek
model. And this is largely powered by
the Deepseek Flash uh adoption. And so
this new class of flash models where
they're good enough for 80% of the
tasks, they're really fast and they're
ultra cheap. this new class of model
that I think will enable some of those
use cases.
>> Yeah. Those are going to be like the
workhorse models to do like all the
grunt work.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. You won't have to be thinking
about how many requests am I making, how
many tokens. You'll be much more
inclined to consume as much as you can
because you know it's able to solve
>> the hardest the not the hardest but you
know difficult problems. If you think
back to the coordination layer we were
talking about earlier too. Being able to
coordinate these flash models together
to do different tasks can also yield
great results that a bigger model can.
So by having these cheaper models, not
only are they more accessible, they can
run faster and you can access them in
higher volume, but you can start to
chain them together and build new
problems that are solved by
orchestration on top. And that's a
really exciting area for new startups,
for existing inference providers, um for
some of the larger businesses today that
solve workflow problems. ultimately
being able to chain these models
together is going to be super helpful
and you won't have to think about the
underlying costs.
>> Yeah, I guess you know when we first
started talking about AGI even on this
podcast um there was this sort of debate
about you know and I think a lot of AI
researchers would come out and say like
there's just going to be a giant god
model and it's going to do everything.
But you know I think so far like it
hasn't quite worked out that way. Like
obviously you still have you know if
you're if you have to literally hack the
NSA maybe you need mythos or something
but um for the majority of use cases
like you're talking about orchestration
and you're talking about um like smaller
models you you you know that the task
composition actually probably gives you
a bunch of ways to make it more
repeatable. It's more trustworthy like
it actually does work at a cost that is
like possible. So, you know, if it was
going to be um God model versus like
lots of, you know, smaller special
purpose or even just like simpler
models, um it's turning out to be the
latter. So far,
>> I think for most customer use cases,
there's a you know level at which a
model becomes good enough and then they
can continue using that level of
intelligence. Maybe the model will get
faster, it'll have better architecture,
it'll be'll have new capabilities, but
they won't have to reach for the god
model. But I do think there are use
cases where the most powerful models
unlock them and that'll continue to be a
thing and it'll be really exciting, you
know, and sometimes scary as well on on
what they can do. But for the
run-of-the-mill use cases where open
models really shine, I think that's
where, you know, we're we're hitting a
point where, you know, you're not
solving necessarily the hardest problems
within the business, but they're hard
enough where it's now unlocked by open
models. Will there be an open model that
becomes a god tier model? Um I think
it's possible and we're seeing you know
really exciting developments from you
know Zoo AI and GLM where some of the
tasks they are frontier and we all saw
with the Kimmy model how for web
development it became the best model and
that sent this new shock wave across the
market which is it's less about a gap
and it's more about a head-to-head
competition which I think makes all of
this even much more exciting.
>> This is a bit of a sensitive question
but what do you think about this and the
geopolitics around it? I think you know
a lot of the geopolitical angles around
this um start with you know where the
where the model's from and the more we
spend time with customers and users a
lot of it's actually how the model's run
where it's run how it's run is it run in
a secure environment um and that starts
to matter a lot more um but I do think
you know look it it's super important
that a customer in the US can use a
model trained in the US and we they have
two kind of classes of of customers we
speak to. One is they don't really care
where the model's from. They care about
where it's run. But for every one of
those, there's, you know, a customer
that's saying, I really care about where
the models from because it's data the
way it it's not even just a a security
issue as much as how does the model
speak. You know, we all go through mo
and and communicate. We all go through,
you know, a lot of the models go through
phases where they sound more robotic,
they sound more friendly, and a lot of
that matters, too. Um but [snorts] I
think the highest order bit is obviously
making sure that you have a model that
end to end you understand where the data
is from which is great from the neotron
models you can go and introspect what
made this model because if you're
putting in a mission critical task which
people are absolutely using open models
for mission critical tasks there's a
post online about how llama powers the
analytics of a power plant to detect
surges in Finland to make sure that the
lights stay on. That's where these
models the the model origin really
matters
>> for for like critical
tasks like that. How do you ensure that
a Chinese model
even if it's hosted in the US isn't
basically like booby trapped to like
cause problems?
>> Yeah, the menuranian candidate problem.
>> Exactly.
>> Have there any been any like known cases
there? The menurian candidate yet?
>> I think not that I can think of off the
top of my head. I haven't heard. I feel
like I would have heard about it, but
>> you know what you don't see a lot on
some of the press articles is how robust
some of the the IT and security teams
are at the businesses that we know of,
the top, you know, Fortune 500
businesses, they're really used to this
already because open source software, if
you think the average application has
thousands of dependencies. This is like
isn't a new problem and all it takes is
one dependency for there to be a major
security issue in the entire
application.
>> Clain poisoning is insane.
>> It's a thing. It's been a thing for
decades and it's not new in that sense.
It's a little more opaque because you
can't like dig into the model. It's
>> it is deterministic
>> but it's deterministic and if you screen
the model properly with safety checks by
and large at least what we're hearing is
from customers is that can be solved.
>> Do you want to talk about the origins of
Lama? you you know you guys came up
through the Docker ecosystem and uh a
lot of people watching you know would
love to be in the position you're in
where you have this sort of enduring
brand moat that looks like it will
extend for you know really till the end
of time. No just it's it's a very
powerful situation to be in. um you
basically found yourself on top of a
giant oil well, right? Um for those out
there wildcatting, you know, can you
tell us that story? You you were
actually working with Jared in uh 2021.
>> Yeah, you know, my my co-founder and I
previously built Docker Desktop while at
Docker. So we really got a understanding
of like what makes a great developer
experience. But I have to say the first
few years of Ola as a company was really
in search for what's the right problem
to solve with this muscle we've built of
trying to design a great experience for
developers.
>> You applied to YC with a very different
idea. Right.
>> For sure.
>> Do you remember what the like tagline
was when you guys applied to YC in
Winter 21?
>> I think it wasn't well defined. I think
we realized let's go back to building a
really great desktop experience for
containers and Kubernetes.
>> I remember what I wrote down on the on
the application. It was a kitematic for
Kubernetes or a Docker desktop for
Kubernetes.
>> Yeah. Which was effectively Docker
Desktop. They had a great Kubernetes.
[laughter]
I think you know it's one of the
challenges as a second time founder that
you know Michael and I have told
ourselves. We we tried to overengineer
the idea in many ways and I think even
the two to three years after like we did
YC in 2021 and Olama wasn't launched
until July of 2023 after we raised our
series A after obviously after we had
done YC that journey was one of really
in search for a customer problem that
could delight a developer and in some
ways it was almost a good thing that
we tried different ideas and pivoted
until 2023 because that's when Mama
Llama came out and started the open
model with
>> which is why it's called O Lama.
>> Not necessarily.
>> Okay. No. Oh, really?
>> Llama means generally from our
experience whether you think of local
llama as the subreddit lama really just
stands for open models. You know, as we
were looking through the name, it wasn't
necessarily from an existing model.
>> It was more LLM and it's like the animal
plus LLM.
>> Yeah. And I think having that character
was important. We like what's a good
name for a character, a face you can put
to the name because models animal mascot
sometimes.
>> Docker had one GitHub.
>> He still hasn't taken my advice to have
llamas come to actual O Lama events.
>> Oh my god. [laughter]
>> I'm curious what your series A pitch was
because you raised from Benchmark like
fantastic investor but all of this the
future we're in now hadn't quite taken
off in 2023. So what was like the pitch
and the vision back then?
>> Yeah. and we partnered with Benchmark in
2022. So it was Deli days but pre-C Chad
GBT when it came down to the pitch I
think we weighed so much on like hey
we're trying to build this great
developer experience we're solving this
security problem and we had known u
Peter the partner at benchmark from our
previous lives building building a
docker because he was the series A
investor in docker and so a lot of it
was weighted on you know the people and
also why we exist I think the what I
mean you know solving SSO for
Kubernetes, which is a real problem,
wasn't really our passion. I think we
were really lucky to find a partner that
could could see us for what we stood for
and what we were trying to do versus the
point in time, you know, problem we were
solving at that point.
>> Yeah, I see. So, you as the a sort of
pre- pivot,
>> correct? Okay. I didn't realize that
actually. H
>> I was just looking at this cloud tokens
by model family graph and like basically
if you just look at this graph it looks
like the Olama story begins on in
February 2026 and it like explodes
thereafter which is like so funny
because like of course it actually goes
back to like 2021.
What was it like to be like sort of lost
in the wilderness for like many years
working on stuff that was like kind of
working but like not really taking off
and then all of a sudden to have things
like just like explode like how did how
did it affect you and your co-founder
psychology and the team and the
employees? What what was the experience
like?
>> It was definitely scary and and and for
a few reasons. You know, one is like
when you're when you're trying to solve
a problem for devs or for a customer and
you're just getting on the phone with
them over and over again and it's not
totally clicking. That's, you know, it's
less about the are we in the headlines
or is is the project taking off the
product we're building. It was just are
we truly actually solving a problem for
somebody? And I think being lost in the
wilderness like what's your north star
that customers are generally a great
north star, but not seeing the north
star is even scarier, right? Because
often you know what problem you want to
solve, you just haven't figured out what
problem and I I think the you know
Michael my co-founder and I we started
this company because we had built a
company in the past and we ended up
being acquired by Docker very early. It
was just the founding team and Arnorstar
was saying we want to go solve a great
experience for developers with something
they find really hard but man in the two
years where we're just finding that
problem it's really scary. you know, we
had a team of more than 10 people which
made that really hard. And I'm so
thankful to that team for staying by our
side as we went through different ideas,
you know, and and what what's not really
obvious is we went from this security
for Kubernetes to then like security for
developers on the desktop, which is like
the pivot that we've never spoken about.
And then we kind of took that form
factor when models came out. We said,
well, it was a leap, but it was we knew
kind of the the kind of problem and the
feeling a developer wanted to have, but
LMS finally made it realize like it was
it was crystal clear at the point when
we tried running the llama model and it
was really hard and we're like, okay,
this is a problem and it's really
impressive when you get it working and
it's kind of just a
zero to one moment. I'm curious for the
story of that pivot because there there
actually like many pivots in the Olama
story, but probably like the most
critical one was like the pivot to Olama
to doing like locally hosted LLMs. Like
how did that come about? Were you just
like tinkering with ideas on the side?
And when you found the idea, was it
really obvious to everyone in the
company that that was the thing to do or
was there like like a a big debate? And
it wasn't until it took off that it
became clear.
>> We you know sat in a room together. I
remember we were in Toronto because we
had a team split across Toronto and Palo
Alto and now we're predominantly in Palo
Alto and we were saying throw everything
out like if we had to start from scratch
and we were just joined right now what
would we do and you know we had seen two
big problems because we had talked to
some users and LMS we tried using open
source LMS ourselves or just LMS in
general one problem was could you build
a gateway to access any model and host
that and make that really seamless back
then we were thinking of it as like the
segment for you know LLMs
>> it's a good way to think about which I
think has become really this big router
idea which is only at the beginning.
It's a massive opportunity. And the
other problem was we were a bunch of
XVMware Xdoccker folks like we know how
to make things run and so like let's
help make things run with open models
and then we kind of
>> systems
>> yeah systems and so we kind of tried to
really introspect our team which I wish
we had done sooner because security is a
very different team and sale than
developer tools and just by doing that
we gravitated towards saying let's just
try this thing let's give ourselves two
weeks to launch the first version of
Llama and then Llama 2 came out and we
said that was right at the end of the
two weeks we said okay we're launching
And we just had a bias to action. And if
you think back like in 2 weeks all of
that happened, going from idea to
shipping it to getting to more users
than we had ever had with our previous
stuff. And before that was two years of
just frankly overthinking the customer,
the product, and just not getting
something out there.
>> The first time I actually heard about
was on Reddit. I didn't realize it was
you guys. I was on like that logo. I
just was interested in like running
local models and it was on like the I
think the local LLM subreddit or
whatever and everyone was just raving
about OAMA and how great it was.
>> I was like, "Oh, it's a YC company."
>> Yeah. I found I found out later actually
cuz you you were called a different
company. You weren't in our internal
system and [laughter]
>> Yeah. I remember catching up with Jared
and saying, "Oh, hey, by the way,
there's all that security stuff. We have
this thing now. I think you were
catching up with Jared and then I bumped
into you on the stairs and [laughter] I
think you had your t-shirt or some swag
or something and I was like like you
guys are a lot like
>> you know I
>> meeting a rockstar or something.
>> It would have been really hard to time
this but I wish we had taken that leap
much sooner. I mean the best time to do
it was during YC.
>> It wasn't possible didn't exist.
>> Exactly.
>> Lama didn't launch yet. I guess you were
also one of the first GitHub projects
that very quickly got to 100,000 GitHub
stars, right? Do you remember how long?
It was like very quick.
>> Yeah, I can't remember exactly how fast,
but it was much faster than Docker and
Kubernetes. To your point, it it things
kind of just started working and started
taking off and you're really as a
founder just beside yourself because you
can't totally explain why. I think it's
the best way to explain product market
fit. And there are different levels of
product market fit. you know, we only
started monetizing earlier this year
with Llama's Cloud, but just to see
people fall in love with the product.
It's such a zero to one moment that um I
wish we had done it during YC, but in
some ways it wasn't possible. I also
think it's just kind of wild to put into
perspective like you sort of went from
being in sort of like the cranks on
Reddit like interested in running their
own like rigs at home to like 85% of the
Fortune 500 in like 2 years or something
like that. That's [laughter] like that's
like a pretty
>> That's the homebrew computer club to uh
broad computer adoption like speedrun
that took 10 years for the PC took like
>> 18 months 12 months.
>> Yeah. And that's one of the things that
surprised us the most because I think
look I think open models the original
users very much hobbyists just
tinkering. Oh my god this is even
possible but very quickly because you
know two things one is they were free to
get started with and you could run them
anywhere. that is incredibly helpful to
a Fortune 500 IT developer team because
they don't have to ask for permission to
use it. And so it just happened what was
really good for a hobbyist user
translated very quickly to a developer
within a business. Um it just happened
to be a case where that was that was it.
You know, for example, databases, we saw
some of this too where a database that
started for devs like MongoDB very
quickly also moved to enterprise, but
because LLMs are stateless, it made for
such an easy transition. Now, moving to
the cloud, there's a lot more in play.
There's an economic question. If you're
a customer, there's obviously security.
Where's the model running? But what's
beautiful about open models that both
hobbyists and IT developers loved is you
could just get started. You didn't need
permission.
>> Can we talk about the monetization
angle? cuz this is this is interesting
too. So like in 2023 Llama 2 takes off
all of a sudden you got all these users
100,000 GitHub stars like you've clearly
found something but it's basically like
Reddit cranks who are using it. You're
making no revenue and there's no obvious
path for how you will ever make any
revenue from all these like cranks on
Reddit. It was 2 years before you
actually figured out a business model
for it which funny enough is exactly the
position that Docker was in. Like how
did you think about it during those two
years? Were you were you worried about
it? Were was the team asking like what's
the business model going to be? How did
you think about like figuring out how to
make money from it?
>> I think there's always two ways that we
saw open models um being able to
monetize in a way that's great for the
company, great for the developer and
great for the the customer. And one of
them was a privacy focused AI product
which Ola started really started with
that in its open source incarnation. But
we always felt that there was this
moment where you know you weren't using
llama with uh the llama models for
example with with tool calling right
away when they came out. So there were
use cases where it was still reserved
for the frontier models. And again with
at the risk of overthinking it we kind
of saw that there wasn't the product
level of product market fit with open
models that closed models had. And in
some ways philosophically we want to
align with when that happens we want to
be there to capture that. I think it
happened this year with coding agents
running with open models because you had
the largest consumption of AI being
matched with finally open models being
able to service that. There are a lot of
opportunities along the way to do it
privately securely. Again, a lot of the
Fortune 500 have already adopt Lama. But
we really asked ourselves what would be
the most important problem we could
solve for a customer. And the local
piece, while an important part of that
story, never felt like the whole story,
which was how do you access open models
for the hardest problems? And so, in
some ways, waiting. We knew we had to
wait a little bit for the market to
mature. At the same time, what are the
risks of waiting? Well, you build a
culture if if not careful. And we had
learned a lot of this from our Docker
days where you don't think about
monetization. It's not a priority. I
think from our previous battle scars as
a team, we we kind of had we knew about
that. But I think the other component
which is really important is making sure
you keep in touch with your customers.
Like one of the biggest risks of having
an open-source project that takes off is
you consider your user base and customer
base like your customer just a blob on
the internet
>> which is a really risky way to think
about customers because you want to meet
them figure out their needs. What are
they doing? What do they want to do in
six months? What's their story? And I
think that's the thing I wish we had
done a little more in the last few years
and we're doing a ton of that now.
>> One thing I'm curious when you went
through IC, you guys were second time
founders. I'm curious what got you to
decide to do YC. Actually,
>> you know, we we went back and forth on
this for a lot, which we shouldn't have.
We should have just said, of course,
we're doing YC. Um, but by and large,
starting a company is a really lonely
experience. Even if you have a great
co-founder, and Michael, my co-founder,
was the co-founder of my first company.
He was my college roommate at University
of Wateroo. Um, but it's still lonely
and I think just having a set of peers,
even though we did it during the
pandemic, just talking to Jared and like
five [snorts] other groups of founders
every week really helped you feel less
lonely. And I think that's such an
important part of it. And then of course
when we finally moved down here and
there was no more co the network was
just incredible. And the fact that we
could meet founders building on open
models, building on any kind of AI, you
know, we kind of knew that was going to
happen cuz we had known so many founders
from the University of Water who had
done YC pre-COVID and they were like,
it's really about getting together and
like that was a big part of it and we
knew that was there and you know, I
think that's that's what made it a
no-brainer. But also just I think there
are a lot of mistakes you can repeat
that you don't have to. And what I love
about the YC community is how
transparent founders are with each other
about those and you know I still keep in
touch with the founder of Docker uh
who's an investor in our company and
we're able to talk about some of these
challenges we saw in the previous
generation of companies that you know we
don't necessarily have to repeat or
things that worked and we can bring you
know into the future.
>> Yeah. If you just uh don't repeat one of
those mistakes that you know sometimes
is the mistake that would have killed
the company
>> potentially. Yeah. Yeah. our our famous
saying, you know, a bunch of our team is
from uh companies that ended up working
great and Docker is doing phenomenal
now, but whether it's, you know, some of
our team was early early at VMware and
it there are always ups and downs and I
think just having a group of people
around the table who have a collection
of those and also what worked actually
what worked is actually even more
important and just being able to like
have that muscle memory is a big part of
it. Oh man, I was just thinking about
this because we obviously hang out with
and work with a lot of 18 year olds or
19 year olds and then sometimes they're
always asking like, "Well, what should I
do?" And then I'm starting to realize
like one of the more important things is
if you've never worked on a team that
shipped really amazing technology to
like a lot of people or like like just
real clear product market fit, like do
that once. Like even if it's a month,
even if it's like three months, you
would learn more in those three months
because then you know what good looks
like. And then without that it's like I
mean it's not like it's impossible like
people at YC do figure it out because
you but it's that much harder. Like the
difference between having seen something
that actually works from like beginning
to like some form of like this is what
the bug database looks like and this is
how we release and this is the quality
that's necessary and here's like the bar
that we hold each other to. Having seen
that it just like multiplies the chance
that people succeed. So it makes sense
that you know starting off with a
co-founding team that has seen a lot of
that pretty powerful.
>> Yeah, I think it it provides you a set
of values you can work around especially
when you have so much power in your
hands with AI. There just parts of it
that I can help you with but it won't
hold you accountable to it and you know
how does software work and look at for
example I'm sure there's versions of
running in the wild from two years ago.
How will your software work when
somebody falls in love with it and
continues using it for two years? Is it
still going to be working well?
hopefully they update to the latest
software or it's you know a cloud
service but I think you build that
muscle memory and we definitely have
that from a lot of our more senior
engineers on the team who are at VMware
or NERA for example but at the same time
I think there are a lot of lessons we
learned in the previous generation of
DevOps and infrastructure that aren't
valid anymore in the AI world
>> oh yeah tell us about it what have you
found
>> what is not valid anymore
>> I think a good example that I
classically used is there was this
generation of companies called platform
platform as a service
>> and in the contents the Heroku of the
world was a great example of this.
>> I mean Docker started out as that
>> Docker started out as a platform as a
service and there's this concept that if
you're a layer on top of something else
that you're in kind of a vulnerable
position as a startup which is
absolutely not true in the eye world and
in fact going up the stack can sometimes
be even better because you're closer to
the customer. in an infrastructure world
that that's also the case and that that
was like an analogy that we had to like
so many of these muscles we actually had
to break building a lama. Another one
was you know these LMS are never perfect
and like in the systems world you want
everything to be exactly as it's
designed to run. It's tested it's
validated but LMS by definition are not
>> that's a feature not a bug.
>> Exactly. It's a feature.
>> You want it to be a little
non-deterministic I suppose. And I think
from building a team too, it's that you
know with AI now there are just problems
that you don't need to
staff as heavily whereas you you you did
10 years ago, right? If you think about
what does your customer support pipeline
look like?
>> Um what does it look like to deliver a
cloud service? Like it's a very
different world with AI because how do
you build a service where no engineer
knows exactly how all the code works
which is obviously the case now. And so
there's just new lessons we're learning
going from like a, you know, some of our
team from infrastructure 1.0 in the
2000s to cloud in the 2010s to now the
AI space. There are a lot of rules that
break.
>> I mean, you're probably actually doing
an incredible service to um like both
sides of the ecosystem and that like the
end users get this like very clean thing
that just works, especially like the
tokens just come out and they're very
clean and the API makes sense and it's
rational and logical. And then on the
flip side like I mean if you don't have
a layer like I've directly experienced
this where it's like oh yeah the
underlying inference provider has a
weird error for you know if you put this
parameter in this way or it expects JSON
and you know it's not documented. It's
just like this insane minefield. Like,
you know, the agents can kind of figure
it out, but like you're going to like
bang your head into the wall for like a
couple hours before, you know, the agent
figures it out. And in the meantime,
you're like, "This is a terrible
experience." You know, and so you're
like in there probably helping the
inference providers fix all these
fundamental bugs, too.
>> Yeah. And it's part of the the job we
do. And I think one of the big
opportunities in the open model
landscape is curation and taking a
fragmented universe of models and
inference technology and cloud services
and harnesses and like making that
actually just work is a really valuable
problem because the end developer to
your point they just want to build their
software right they just want to build
stuff they want to build their next
company their next application and I I
think that's where we come in but it's
where a ton of great services also come
in and we saw you know open router
obviously is a good example of that from
a wide model selection so developer
doesn't have to sign up for you know
hundred different providers they can
just go to one they can pay in one place
I think we've seen with open code you
know you can have one harness that
integrates with any model it's a really
powerful experience for developers just
looking to try the next model to see if
it solves their use case better so this
curation and you know when there's a
abundance of models and providers now
there's a scarcity in bringing that
together into something that works.
>> Thank you so much for joining us. That's
all we have time for.
>> Thank you guys for having me.