Title: Hiroki Takeuchi
Video ID: s4RBfIwUBgY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s4RBfIwUBgY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-07-31T14:36:19Z
Duration: PT20M36S
Views: 7591
Likes: 50
Tags: Y Combinator, Startup School, Startup School Europe 2014, GoCardless, Hiroki Takeuchi
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 485

Description:
Talk at Startup School Europe 2014 at The Brewery in London

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Now on to the next speaker this
afternoon. Hiroi is a co-founder and CEO
of
go-kardless which is the UK's leading
direct debit provider and they now serve
more businesses than any other direct
debit provider and they're also
expanding to serve
Europe. Heroki and his co-founder Matt
started go-kardless in 2010. So, they've
got a fun story to be telling you about
their history. Thank you, Rocky.
[Applause]
Wow, it's uh really bright up here and I
think that's a good thing. I can kind of
barely see the back, so I can't really
see how many people are in the room
right now. Um, so hi, I'm Heroki and I
started GoKardless actually in the
beginning of 2011, uh, with my
co-founders Matt and Tom. Um, for those
of you that don't know about what we do,
basically we make it really easy for
businesses to accept recurring payments
via direct
debit. When Cat asked me to talk at
Startup School, she asked me to talk
about the earliest stages of go-kardless
and tell our story. And so when I was
thinking through our story, I was trying
to like figure out, okay, what what
should I talk about? And I realized that
actually for me the lessons I've
learned, they didn't come from just, you
know, specific events or one story here
or there. They're lessons that I learned
over time. And so rather than telling
you our straight story, I thought I'd
share four lessons that I've learned
along the way and then give you some
anecdotes as well.
See if this clicker works. Okay, so our
first story is about when your journey
starts and actually that your journey
starts way earlier than you
think. When I sat down to, you know,
really think about this talk and start
thinking about what's the story of
go-kardless and where did it begin? It
actually turned out to be a pretty
non-trivial question. Was it when we
wrote our first line of code? Or was it
when Matt, Tom, and myself agreed to
start a business
together? Or perhaps it was when Matt
and I met for the first time and we
shared our dreams of starting a business
one
day. But then I realized that for me, my
story began way earlier than
that. My story began in the first week
of university.
I'd got to university and you know like
most people you meet lots of new friends
you try out new activities and take up
new hobbies and it was during then that
I met a guy called Carol he was the in
the year above me and he did maths too
and he kind of took me under his wing
and in one of those first weeks he took
me to this meetup for this society
called Oxford
entrepreneurs basically it was a student
society
that was there to promote
entrepreneurship. And I remember my eyes
being opened for the first time to this
world of startups and business. Before
that, I had no idea what it was about. I
thought business was like Lex Luthther
and Mr.
Burns. And so I remember going to this
event and meeting all these really cool
people that were interested in taking
this other path. And it was there that I
met Kvier and Hajj. they're going to
kill me when they see this picture
because it's an awful picture of them.
Um, but they were the first people that
I met that had started a
business. Now, you've got to remember
that back in the, you know, 2005, 2006
when they started their
business, no one was doing that in
London. Everyone was going into banking
or law. And these guys decided to quit
their jobs and start a business together
and pursue their dreams. And I found
that fascinating. So when they decided
to move out to San Francisco, I knew
that I needed to persuade them to give
me an
internship. In the summer of 2007, those
guys finally relented and said, "Okay,
cool. Come and like join us for the
summer." And when I got there, it turns
out that they'd actually teamed up with
a guy called Patrick, who's actually on
stage earlier, and they started
Automatic together. It was basically an
inventory management tool for eBay power
sellers. That's them at a conference
with their I like being on top t-shirts.
Um it was on top of auctions that is um
and I got to see firsthand what it was
like to be in the earliest stages of
being in a startup. I remember getting
there and we spent two months living and
working out of this tiny apartment in
San Francisco. It was a two-bedroom
place and there were six of us. We had
three air mattresses between us and we
had to sleep in shifts so that we
wouldn't knock into each other in the
night. That summer I spent the time my
time just doing customer
interviews, testing out the product by
selling lasers that we imported from
China. They were so powerful that you
could hit a airplane out in the sky with
them. I remember this one time we did it
and we thought we were going to get
caught by the
police.
And I also was surrounded by all of
these developers and learned about what
coding was. Before that, I'd never
really been exposed to it. And I also
got a chance to go to Y Combinator and
see what those dinners were like. And I
heard some of the stories from founders
back then.
So, when it came to starting my
business, I realized that I learned so
much from my experiences at
Automatic. When I first met Matt, would
we have had the debate about the pros
and cons of co-founders versus starting
your business on your
own? Or when it came to starting and
building out our first product, would I
have learned the value of
coding? Would I have even applied for Y
Combinator had it not been for the
experiences that I had then? I'm not
sure we would
have. So remember that your journey
starts way before you think it does. And
if you want to start a business one day,
then think about what you can be doing
right now to learn about what you what
you'll be doing in the future because
you never know what's going to be
useful.
So my second story and lesson is
about being careful of whiteboard ideas.
I'll explain what I mean by that in a
bit. When I met Matt for the first time,
it was when we first started. It was our
first jobs out of university and we were
working as management consultants for
our sins. And we quickly realized that
we had this shared interest in starting
a business and you know that maybe one
day we'd want to start a business
together. I remember we used to spend
hours in between projects and on the
weekends just toying with ideas,
bouncing around on whiteboards
concocting plans of what we might be
able to start one day. I also remember
that we had this really terrible pattern
where every time we came up with an
idea, we'd then spend the next week or
few days just tearing it apart and
realizing how terrible an idea it was.
This was all done on a
whiteboard. So when it came to leaving
our jobs and you know we decided that we
were going to take the plunge and start
a business, we still didn't actually
have an idea of what we wanted to do. We
hadn't settled on something we were
excited about.
Now, it turns out that
actually doing that and telling your
friends that you're starting a business,
but you don't know what it is yet is a
really great forcing
mechanism. We quickly joined forces with
Tom and decided to start something
called Group A. This was uh one of my
early designs. Um, and the idea was
this. If you're a football captain of
your local team or you're going on
holiday with your friends,
then collecting money for for those
informal situations is a real pain. So,
we wanted to start something to fix
that. I'm going to fast forward a little
bit now in the story and you know, we
this was 6 months later. We were out in
Silicon Valley and we were working out
of an apartment in the
mission. We were on my combinator and we
had a prototype of this product that you
know we were trying to get anyone and
everyone to use. We were quickly
approaching demo day which is the
culmination of the Y Combinator program.
It's when all of the founders of Y
Combinator get into a room and present
this to a room full of the who's who of
investors in Silicon Valley. But we had
a little bit of a problem because we
look like
this. And
so in a last stitch attempt to really
try and drum up business, we decided to
move the whole company, engineers and
all, there was four of us at the time,
onto
sales. Now, it turned out that all of
our customers were in the UK. So what
that meant was waking up really early in
the morning every day to cold call into
the UK a list of local football team
managers that we'd found on the
internet. I used to remember when Matt
used to come into my room at 5 in the
morning every morning to start the day's
calling.
It turns out that 5:00 a.m. San
Francisco time is the perfect time to
catch a football manager going into the
pub. It also turns out that the only
thing that they had in common was that
they had no idea how we got their
numbers. Needless to say, we didn't have
much success.
So, in a last stitch attempt to salvage
something from the situation, we decided
to pivot the business and become
go-kardless. Now, we got lucky because a
lot of the work that we' done for Group
A turned out to be exactly what you
would do to start Go Cardless. We'd
learned about payments. We'd gone and
got a banking deal and we were applying
for our regulatory
approval. But what if we hadn't have
started Go Cardless? What if we'd have
wanted to do something else? I often
think what went wrong in those days in
group A. And it's really easy to come up
with various reasons why it didn't work
out. But if I'm going to be honest, I
think the reason it didn't work was
because we weren't really building
something for
ourselves. We weren't even building
something for our friends and family.
We'd come up with this idea on a
whiteboard and we thought how
theoretically great it could be and we
were building a solution for that
instead.
So, when it comes to starting your
business, beware of those ideas. Those
ideas that seem theoretically really
interesting or the ones that are in
really big markets. Really ask yourself
the question, is this something that I'd
want to use myself?
So, oh my third lesson is about focusing
on
momentum. Now, when I first started
go-kardless, I thought that progress
would be a fairly linear thing. I
thought that we'd get from the start to
success something like this.
But when I think about the story that
we've had with Go Cardless, it couldn't
be further from the
truth. Our story looks something more
like
this. Now, in the early days of
go-kardless, we used to spend ages just
debating the smallest things.
We would just spend hours discussing the
smallest of product changes or we'd
agonize over the strategy that we were
going to use for you know capturing this
huge
vision. We had limited time and limited
resource and so we thought we can't
afford to make mistakes. We need to make
sure that we get it first time round.
But actually what turned out was that
rather than just, you know, going in a
straight line from start to success, we
just spend ages going from A to B and
then realizing it was wrong in the end.
Anyway, so our path just ended up
looking like a zigzag, but just a much
slower
one. This is something that's happened
so many times I actually struggle to
come up with even a specific instance.
It's like asking what you had for
breakfast yesterday. You do it so often
that you know you can't even remember
what you ate
yesterday. And over time it's made I've
realized that these mistakes are bound
to happen. You should try and embrace
them
instead. Instead of agonizing over each
and every decision that you make and
making sure that you do exactly the
right thing, it's better to get your
head down and just run with it and then
course correct afterwards instead.
And it's through that cycle of just
constantly course correcting that you
just run really fast and wiggle your way
to
success. In the early days especially,
momentum is the hardest thing to come
by. It's way harder than deciding on
what idea to build to do or whether
something's the right thing or the wrong
thing. It's actually just getting from a
standstill to something at all.
So, I'd say it's better to start doing
the wrong thing than to not start at
all. My last lesson is about being an
emotional cockroach. When I told people
about this, they said, "What does that
mean?" So, I'll explain first, otherwise
I'll just confuse you all. A cockroach
is well known for being able to
withstand a nuclear attack.
And that's what I mean. You need to have
emotions that can withstand the biggest
of ups and the biggest of
downs. I remember when we were doing Y
Combinator, Brian and Nate from Airbnb
came and gave a talk. They told us about
the first thousand days of starting
their business. And I remember walking
through away from that talk and
thinking, "Wow, they came so close to
financial ruin." And it took them so
long to see any success. How did they
have the courage to do that?
We hit our financial low a little bit
earlier in the
summer. That's my co-founder Tom in his
comfortable abode in San
Francisco. We just moved out there and
we didn't have anything. So Matt and
myself took a trip to IKEA to buy the
essentials. We were really poor by that
point and so we had to be really
careful. We had rations for ourselves.
We got there and we had one flimsy
mattress
each, one knife, one fork, a plate, and
then a choice between a mug and a
bowl. When it came to the checkout, the
only way we're able to settle the bill
was by splitting it across Matt's debit
card, the remains of my overdraft, and
the absolute dregs of my credit limit.
But we just got on to Y Combinator, so
things were looking
up. Later that summer, we just been
pitching at demo day and we were
starting to think about
investment. Now, for the last n months,
you've got to realize that all of my
friends thought I was broke and
unemployed. So, we set ourselves a
target. We said we will raise a million
dollars and if we raise a million
dollars then you know no one can joke at
that
right. I remember talking to a room full
of investors after the demo day pictures
and getting really excited. Everyone
seemed to be really interested in what
we were doing and everyone wanted to
find out more. We'd heard all these
stories about YC companies that closed
their rounds in weeks if not days. And I
thought how hard could it be? we're
gonna close this no problem. And we were
so
excited. But then over the coming weeks,
the initial eagerness turned into
hesitant may and eventually definite
nos. A month and a half
later, we had raised less than a quarter
of what we wanted to, and we'd been
rejected at least 60 times on separate
occasions. I remember going to Sand Hill
Road.
We drove there, Matt and myself, and we
had a meeting with an investor there. I
won't name
names. We didn't even need to get to the
end of the meeting to know that there
was the this ain't never going to happen
in the Yeah, sure. Let's keep in
touch. I remember driving back to San
Francisco and it felt like one of the
lowest points yet. We had to go back to
London soon and we were going to go back
failures. I remember turning to Matt and
saying to him, "Hey, how would you feel
if I just crashed into this side barrier
here right
now?" Luckily, we both just
laughed. But then a few weeks later, it
all just seemed to click into place.
We were back in London and Tom had been
speaking to the guys at Axel and we'd
also just been introduced to another
fund called Passion
Capital. We had our final meeting with
the partners at Axel and I remember
getting the call and we all huddled
around and Adam from Axel told us that
they wanted to put in
600K. The next day, Passion told us they
wanted to put in 400K too. And all of a
sudden, almost overnight, we'd gone from
abject failure to smashing our targets
and closing a round of $1.5
million. I'd like to be able to say that
from that point on, it's just been
smooth sailing, but that would be just a
lie.
every single time you think that you're
going to get to a certain milestone or
achieve the next thing or get to the
next level and it will all be okay that
you know everything will be great but no
matter what there's always the next
challenge these peaks and troughs are
never
ending I never appreciated how hard it
would be to start a business I've had
some of the best times of my life
working with the guys at go-kardless but
I'm also about five times grayer than
when I started. If it wasn't for my
co-founders and some of the early team
and my girlfriend and the friends that
had supported me, I don't think I would
have made it this
far. I remember Sam Olman giving us one
of the best pieces of advice that we
ever received. He said that starting a
business is like riding a wave between
life and death. If you can hang on long
enough, you're bound to succeed.
It turns out that holding on to that
wave is one of the hardest things you'll
ever do.
But if you're an emotional cockroach,
you can do it. It will be one of the
best journeys you ever take on your
life. Thank you.