Title: Legal and Accounting Basics for Startups with Kirsty Nathoo and Carolynn Levy  (HtSaS 2014: 18)
Video ID: sd9yLmJ1Jfk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sd9yLmJ1Jfk
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-04-27T23:28:44Z
Duration: PT48M26S
Views: 59307
Likes: 1544
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Startup, Lecture, Stanford, Class, Sam Altman, How to start a startup, startup school, advice, kirsty nathoo, startup legal, startup accounting, Carolynn Levy, Legal and Accounting Basics
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1266

Description:
Lecture Transcript: http://genius.com/Kirsty-nathoo-lecture-18-mechanics-legal-finance-hr-etc-annotated

There's a lot that goes behind the scenes in running a startup. Getting the legal, finance (equity allocation, vesting), accounting, and other overhead right will save you a lot of pain in the long run. Kirsty Nathoo, CFO at Y Combinator, and Carolynn Levy, General Counsel at Y Combinator, cover these very important topics in this lecture.

See the slides and readings at http://startupclass.s

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

in general console uh Kirsty and Carolyn
and they're going to talk about uh
finance and legal mechanics for
startups. Um this is certainly not the
most exciting of the classes. Sorry, but
if you get this right uh this is
probably the class most so thank you
very much for coming and uh yeah. Okay.
So, like Sam said, this lecture is about
the mechanics of startup and Kirsty and
I are going to be talking about some of
the basic legal and accounting issues
that your startup may face in the very
beginning. Um, I was watching Paul
Graham's video and at one point he says,
"Founders don't need to know the
mechanics of starting a startup and I
thought, oh no, that's exactly what Sam
titled this lecture." Um, but what PG
actually says is that founders don't
need to know the mechanics in detail. um
because it's very dangerous for founders
to get bogged down in the details and
that's exactly right and Kirsty and I
can't give you the details in 45 minutes
anyway. So our goal here today is to um
make sure that you do know better than
to form your startup as a Florida LLC.
So as Sam mentioned, we were also
worrying that it's going to be pretty
boring for for you to listen to a an
accountant and a and a lawyer talking
about this. Um, you know, you've had
some really amazing founders talking
about really interesting things, but but
like Sam said, you know, this this is
the kind of stuff that if you know the
basics, you can get yourself set up in
the right way, avoid pain, stop worrying
about it, and then concentrate on what
you actually want to do, which is make
your company a
success. And so, you know, we refer to
this term startup all the time. And
probably in the back of your head you
kind of know that by startup we mean
there has to be some legal entity and
that's you know some kind of separate
legal entity. Um we'll talk a little bit
more about how we actually set that up
and what that means to you and you also
probably know that a startup will have
assets IP inventions other things and
that the company needs to protect those.
So we'll talk a little bit more about
that about how to raise money um hiring
employees and entering into
contracts. So there's a few other things
that that you need to talk about whilst
you're setting up your company which
kind of ferits out a few issues amongst
founders. Things like who's going to be
in charge and how much equity is
everybody going to own. So those are
really good things to talk about
too. Oh, we've lost our slides. There we
go.
Okay, this is us. Kirsty has the
calculator. I have like the geriatric
glasses, which is actually pretty
fair. Okay, so the first thing we're
going to talk about is formation. Kirsty
actually just mentioned that. Um, your
startup is going to be a separate legal
entity. Um, and then and you guys
probably already know this, but the
primary purpose forming a separate legal
entity is to protect yourselves from
personal liability. And what that means
is if your company ever gets sued um you
know it can't it's not your money in
your bank account that the that the
person can take. It's the corporation.
So that's why you form one. So then the
question is where do you form one? And
theoretically you have 50 choices. Um
but the easiest place is Delaware. And
I'm sure you're all familiar with that
as well. But um Delaware is in the
business of forming corporations. Um the
law there is very clear and very
settled. It's the
standard. The other thing is that
investors are very comfortable with
Delaware. They already invest uh in
companies that are Delaware
corporations. Most of their investments
are probably Delaware corporations. So
if you are also a Delaware corporation,
then everything just becomes much more
simple, right? There's less diligence
for the investor to do. you don't have
to have a conversation about whether or
not to reinccorporate your Washington
company into Delaware. So, there's a
reason that so many companies do it.
It's standard. It's familiar. So, I'll
tell you a story. We had a company at YC
uh about 2 years ago that was originally
formed uh as an LLC in a state that I'll
I'll say Connecticut. Um the founders
had some lawyer friends there who said
this is the right way to do it. And when
they came to YC, we said you guys need
to convert to Delaware. So, uh, the
lawyers in Connecticut did the
conversion paperwork and unfortunately
they didn't do it right. They made a
very simple mistake, but it was a very
crucial mistake. The company was
recently raising money, like a lot a lot
of money and this mistake was
uncovered that the basically the mistake
was this company thought it was a
Delaware corporation for a couple years,
but in fact it was still a Connecticut
LLC. And I'll just say this, four
different law firms were needed to
figure that one out. two in Delaware,
one in Connecticut, one here in the
Silicon Valley. And the bill right now
is at
$500,000 for a conversion mistake. So,
so what's the takeaway here? Pretty
simple. Uh, keep it really simple and
familiar for yourself. The reason we
incorporate all companies the same way
at Y Combinator is because it's easy.
So, don't get fancy. Just save yourself
some time and money.
Okay. So, once you've decided that
you're going to be a Delaware
corporation, how do you actually set
that up? Um, and it requires a few
different steps, but the first one is
actually really easy. You literally just
fax two pieces of paper into Delaware
saying, "We're going to set up a
corporation." Um, all that does though
is create a shell of a company. It
doesn't actually do anything within the
company. So, after that, you then need
to complete a set of documents that
among other things um, approve the
bylaws of the company. It creates a
board of directors. It creates officers
of the company. Delaware requires that
somebody has the title of CEO, president
and of
secretary. So also at this point you
need to complete documents that assign
any inventions or any code or anything
that you as an individual create so that
the company actually owns that. Um and
remember at this point it's it's a
really good thing to think about you as
founders have to think about things in
two different ways. um you always have
to be thinking am I doing this as an
individual as me or am I doing this on
behalf of the company which is a
separate entity so you have to maintain
that split in your mind going through
all of this and we'll talk more about
where that comes in uh a little bit
later so there are services that can
help you get incorporated of course you
can use a law firm um but there are also
other online services that help and the
one that we often use with a lot of the
YC companies is is called Clerky um
clerky.com and they are set up so that
all the standard basic documents are
used and they get you set up in a very
vanilla way so that you can just move on
and keep keep focusing on what you need
to
do. So a note on paperwork um you're
creating documents. These are really
important documents that are going to
be setting what the company does and
what the company is. So, it's really
really important that you actually keep
these signed documents in a safe place.
And it sounds so basic, but we get so
many founders coming to us saying, "Oh,
I don't know the the some documents."
And they have no idea what they are or
where they are. So, really really make
sure that you keep them in a safe place.
And let's be let's be honest, this is
not the glamorous part of running a
startup, you know, filing documents. Um,
but actually at the times where this is
crucial are going to be at really high
stress times in the startup's life. It's
likely to be if the company's raising a
big series A round or if the company's
being acquired, the company will have to
go through due diligence and there will
be lawyers asking for all this stuff.
And if you don't have it and you don't
know where it is, it's just making a
really stressful situation even more
stressful.
So really the you know the key thing
here is like we say keep it simple but
keep those documents in a safe place um
and keep it organized. It'll make your
life so much
easier. Okay. So now we're going to talk
um about equity and we're going to touch
on a couple different things um in this
section. The first thing that we're
going to talk about is equity
allocation. So um what am I talking
about here? talking about if your
company's stock is a pie, you're talking
about how to divide the pie and you're
talking about this with your
co-founders. Why is this important? Um
well, if you're a solo founder, this
really isn't important. But if you are a
team of two or more, then this issue is
absolutely critical. So the first thing
that you need to know is that execution
has greater value than the idea. What do
I mean by that? A lot of founder teams
give way too much credit and therefore a
lot of the company's equity to the
person who came up with the idea for the
company and ideas are obviously very
important but they have zero value. Who
has ever heard of a billion dollar
payment for just an idea? So value is
really created when the whole founder
team works together to execute on an
idea. Um and so you need to resist the
urge to give a disproportionate amount
of stock to the founder who is credited
with coming up for the idea for the
company. Uh the next thing you want to
think about is okay so how much stock or
should the stock be allocated equally
among the
founders? And from our perspective the
simple answer is probably yes. Um, our
mantra at Y Combinator is that um, stock
allocation doesn't have to be exactly
equal, but if it's very
disproportionate, that's a huge red flag
for us. We wonder what conversation is
not happening in among the founder team
when the ownership isn't equal. For
example, is one founder secretly
thinking that this whole startup thing
is uh, temporary? Is one founder
overinflating the work that he or she
has already done on the company or
overinflating his or her education or
prior experience? Do the founders really
trust each other and have they been
honest with each other about their
expectations for the startup and for the
future? So when ownership is
disproportionate, what we worry about is
that the founders are not in sync with
one
another. Thirdly, um it's really
important to look forward in the
startup, not backwards. And set another
way, uh, are all the founders in it
100%. Are they all in it for the long
haul? If the expectation at your startup
is that each founder is in it 100%. And
you're all in it for the long haul, then
everything that happened before the
formation of the company shouldn't
matter. It doesn't matter who thought of
the idea. It doesn't matter who did the
coding or who built the prototype or
which one has an MBA. It will feel
better to the whole team if the
allocation is equal because the whole
team is necessary for
execution. So here's the takeaway on
this point. In the top YC companies,
which we call those, you know, with the
highest valuations, there are zero
instances where the founders have had
significantly disproportionate equity
split.
All right. So you've had the
conversation about how to split the
equity, but then what? Um, again, we
talked to many founders who are actually
surprised that they have to do something
in order to own this stock. Um, they
think about they think that talking
about it is is actually enough. Um, and
this again it's another situation where
you have to think about you as an
individual versus you as a
representative of the company. And if
you if you equate this to a large
company, you know, if you if you worked
at Google and you were told as part of
your compensation package that you would
be receiving some shares, you would
expect to sign something to get those
shares. And if you didn't, you'd be
thinking, "Oh, what's going on here?"
Well, it's the same thing with with a
small company as well. So, in this case,
the paper, the documents that you're
signing is a stock purchase agreement.
So, you as an individual buy the shares
from the company and in any situation,
if you're buying something, there's a
two-way transaction where you pay for
something and you get something in
return. Um, and in this case, you're
getting shares in return for either a
cash payment or for contributing IP or
inventions or code to the company so
that the company actually owns
everything that you've done in the past.
So, we also refer to that stock being
restricted um because it vests over time
and we're going to cover that next um in
more detail. But as a result of the
stock being restricted and vesting,
there's one very very crucial piece of
paper that we talk about until we're
blew in the face to everybody because
there's actually no way to go back and
fix this. And this is actually one of
the things
that because there's no there's no way
to fix this, this has blown up deals in
the past. We've we've seen companies
where because they haven't filed what's
called an 83b election, um deals have
blown up. And I'm not going to go into
detail about what that 83b election is
actually about, but just leave it as it
affects your individual taxes and it
affects the company's taxes. And so it
can have a big impact. So you know here
we have the main the main things here
are sign the paperwork, sign the sign
the stock purchase agreements, sign the
83b election and make sure that you
actually have proof that you've sent
that in because if you don't have the
proof, it just goes into a black hole at
the IRS and investors and acquirers will
walk away from a deal if you can't prove
that. Okay. So, the next thing we're
going to talk about um is vesting. And I
imagine that many of you are familiar
with what vesting is, but just in case,
really simply, um vesting means that you
get full ownership of your stock over a
specific period of time. So, we're
talking about the stock that Kirsty just
said, you bought your stock of your
company and you own it and you get to
vote it, but if you leave before this
vesting period is over, then the company
can get some of those unvested shares
back. So, um, and I'm just going to just
so you guys know, uh, the other ways to
refer to vesting, you'll hear, um,
restricted stock. That means that that's
stock that's subject to vesting. The IRS
speak for this is shares that are
subject to forfeite. So, so a little
terminology there. Um, okay. So, what
should a typical vesting period be? In
Silicon Valley, the so-called standard
vesting period is four years with a
one-year cliff. This means that after
one year, the founder vests in or fully
owns 25% of the shares. Then the
remaining shares vest monthly over the
next 3 years. So here's an example.
Founder buys stock on Christmas day,
let's say, and then quits the company on
the following Thanksgiving. So before
the year has passed. Um in that case,
the founder leaves with zero shares,
right? Cliff period hasn't been met. Um,
if the founder though quits the day
after the next Christmas, so a year and
a day later, he or she is vested in
exactly 25% of the shares, right? In
that case, the one-year clip has been
met. So, what happens to the shares when
a when a founder stops working at the
company? Um, company can repurchase
those shares. In the example I just gave
where the founder quit a year and a day
after purchasing the shares, 75% of
those shares are still invested and the
company will repurchase all that full
75% of those shares from the founder.
How just writes the founder a check.
That's how the founder bought it, right?
So it's the same price per share that
the founder paid and it's really just
giving the founder his or her money
back. So then the question is why would
you have vesting? Why would founders do
this to themselves? Right? because it's
just the founders, they're they're doing
this on their own shares
um doing this to their own shares. So,
and probably the number one reason why
vesting is important uh has to do with
founders leaving the company. So,
without say if you didn't have vesting
and a founder leaves, a huge chunk of
the equity ownership leaves with or him
with him or her. And obviously, that is
not fair to the founders left behind.
And we're actually going to talk about
this a little bit more when we get to
the founder employment slide. I'll go
into that in more detail. But the other
reason to have vesting is the concept of
skin in the game. The idea that founders
need to be incentivized to keep working
on their startup. If a founder can walk
away with his or her full ownership at
any point in time, then why would you
stay and grind away? Startups are hard.
So,
um, do single founders need vesting?
They do. And the reason is because this
skin in the game concept applies to solo
founders as well. And investors really
want to see all founders, even solo
founders, incentivized to stay at the
company for a long time. And the other
reason that single founders should put
vesting on their shares is to set an
example for employees because you can
imagine it would be, you know,
inappropriate for a founder to tell an
employee that he or she has to have
four-year vesting on his or her shares,
but the founder doesn't think that he or
she needs any on their own shares. Um
it's really a culture point. Um a
founder who has vesting on his or her
shares then sets the sets the tone for
the company saying we're all in it for
the long haul. We all have vesting on
our shares. We're doing this together.
So what are the takeaways from here? I
would say um vesting aligns incentives
among the founders if they all have to
stick it out and grow the company before
any of them get any of that company. And
then number two, investors don't want to
put money in a company where the
founders can quit whenever they feel
like it and still have a big equity
ownership stake in that
company. Okay, so moving on, we've now
got a beautifully formed corporation in
Delaware. Everybody's got their stock.
Um it's all the the plain vanilla
standard paperwork. So So then what? You
know, probably the next stage of a
company's life is needing to raise some
money. Um, so we're going to we're going
to talk a bit more about that and and
you know, we know that you've already
heard a lot from investors and from
founders already in in this set of
classes. Um, and they've been talking
much more around the tactics and how to
raise money. But what about the
paperwork? What about when somebody
actually agrees to invest? Then
what? So first of all, in terms of
logistics, in very simple terms, there
are two ways to raise money. So either
the price is set for what the the money
that comes in or the price isn't set.
And by price we mean the valuation of
the company. It's it's the same
things. So rounds can actually be called
anything. People can can name them
whatever they want, but generally if you
hear the term seed round, it would mean
that the price has not been set. And
anything that's a series A or a series B
would be something where the price has
been set.
So not setting the price is the more
straightforward fast route to getting
money. And usually the way that this is
done is through convertible notes or
safes. And again, this is a two-way
transaction. So there's a piece of paper
that says, for example, that an investor
is paying $100,000 now and in return has
the right to receive stock at a future
date when the price is set by investors
in a priced
round. So it's important to note that at
the time the paperwork is set, that
investor is not a
shareholder and therefore doesn't have
any voting rights on the company. they
will have some other rights um which
Caroline is going to talk about
separately. Of course, investors want
something in return for putting in money
at the earliest i.e. riskiest stage of
the company's life. And this is where
the concept of a valuation cap comes in
which I'm sure many of you have heard
mentioned before.
So usually the documents um for an
unpriced round set a cap for the
conversion into shares and that's not
the current valuation of the company. Um
it's actually an upper bound on the
valuation used in future to use uh used
in future to calculate how many shares
that investor is going to get.
So, for an example, an investor that
invests $100,000 on a safe with a $5
million cap. Um, then a year later, the
company raises a priced round with a
valuation of, let's say, $20 million.
Um, then the early investor would have a
much much lower price per share, about a
quarter. Um, and therefore their
$100,000 would buy them approximately
four times more shares than an investor
that was coming in and putting in a h
100,000 in that series A priced round.
So that's where they get their their
reward for being in early.
So again, this is another situation
where you need to make sure you have the
signed documents um and you you know
where they are because different
investors may have different rights and
so you need to know what those things
are and again services like clerky can
can help with that. They have very
standard documents that most of our YC
companies use to raise money
on. A couple of other things to think
about when you are raising money. Um,
hopefully you've got a really hot
company that's that's doing great and
it's really easy to raise money, but you
should be aware that all these people
throwing money at you does have some
downsides. Um, so the first thing is to
understand your future dilution. So if
you raise, let's say, $2 million on
safes with a valuation cap of $6
million, then when those safes convert
into equity, those early investors are
going to own about 25% of the
company. And that's going to be in
addition to the investors that are
coming in at that priced round who may
want to own 20% of the company. So
you've already at that point given away
45% of the company.
So, is this really what you want? And
you know, the answer might be yes. Um,
remember that some money on a low
valuation cap is infinitely better than
no money at all. And if those are the
terms that you can get, then then take
that money. Um, but it's just something
to be aware of and to follow through the
whole process so that you can see where
this is going to lead you down the road.
The other thing to bear in mind is that
the invest in investors should be
sophisticated. Um, and by that we mean
that they they have enough money to be
able to invest. Um, and that they they
understand that investing in startups is
a risky business. You know, we we see so
many companies coming into us that say,
"Oh, yeah, my my uncle put money in or
my neighbor put money in and they've put
in5 or $10,000 each." And often those
are the investors that cause the most
problems going forward because they
don't understand how this is a long-term
game. Um, and so, you know, they get to
the point where they're sitting
thinking, hm, I could actually do with
that money back because I need a new
kitchen or, you know, this this startup
investing is not actually as exciting as
all the TV shows and movies made it out
to be. So, and those those cause
problems to the company, you know, if
they're they're asking for their money
back. So just be aware that that you
should really be getting money from
people who are sophisticated and know
what they're doing. And the term that
you'll hear that that refers to these
people are that they are accredited
investors. So really the main the main
points here is keep it simple, raise
your money using standard documents. Um,
keep make sure that you have people who
understand what they're getting into and
understand what you're getting into in
terms of future
dilution.
Okay? So, uh, you're raising money, you
understand what you're selling, you
figured out the price, you've got down
the logistics that Kirsty just
described. Um, but what you may find is
that you don't understand some of the
terms and terminology that your
investors are using. And this is okay,
but you have the burden to go figure
that stuff out. Um, don't assume that
just because you've agreed on the
valuation or the price, um, that all the
other stuff doesn't matter because it
does matter. And you need to know how
these terms are going to impact your
company in the long run. At Y Cominator,
um, Krist and I hear founders say all
the time, I didn't know what that was. I
didn't know what I was signing. You
know, I I didn't know I agreed to that.
So, really, the burden is on you to
figure this figure this stuff out. and
we're going to go over four common
investor
requests. So, the first one is board
seat. Um, some investors will ask for a
seat on your company's board of
directors. And the investor usually
wants to be a director either because he
or she really wants to keep tabs on
their money or because he or she really
thinks they can help you run your
business. And you have to be really
careful about adding an investor to your
board. In most cases, you want to say
no. Otherwise, make sure it's a person
who's really going to add value. Having
money is very valuable, but someone who
really helps with strategy and direction
is priceless. So, choose
wisely. The other thing is advisors.
There are so many people who want to
give advice to startups and so few
people who actually give give good
advice. Once an investor has given your
company money, that person should be a
de facto adviser. but without any
official title and more importantly
without the company having to give
anything extra in return for the advice.
So here's an example. Um at Y Combinator
we've noticed that whenever a startup
manages to garner a celebrity investor,
the celebrity almost always asks to be
an adviser. We have a company that
provides ondemand bodyguard services and
an NBA basketball player invested asked
to be an adviser and then asked to be
given shares of common stock in exchange
for the adviser
services. And the services that this
person had in mind, this investor had in
mind would be to introduce this company
around to all the other professional
basketball players who might want to use
an ondemand
bodyguard. But this celebrity just made
a big investment. Um, shouldn't he want
to help the company succeed anyway? Why
does he need something extra? All
investors who can help should do so.
Asking for additional shares is just an
investor looking for a
freebie. Okay. Next, we're going to talk
about pro ratites. What are prerites?
Some of you may have heard of this
before, but very simply, it's the right
to maintain your percentage ownership in
a company by buying more shares in the
company in the future. but rather rights
are a a way to avoid dilution and
dilution in this context means um owning
less and less of the company each time
the company sells more stock to other
investors. So this is a really basic
example but say an early investor buys
shares of preferred stock and ends up
owning 3% of the company once the
financing has closed. Then the company
raises another round of financing and
the company will go to this investor who
negotiated and got prat of rightites and
say hey we're raising more money so
you're welcome to buy you know this many
shares in the new round to keep your
ownership at approximately 3%. That is
prorerites at their very most basic. So
prorites are a very common request for
from investors and they are not
necessarily a bad thing but you
absolutely as a founder need to know how
prorer rightites work especially because
Kirsty touched on this a little bit the
correlary to an investor having pro rat
rights to avoid dilution is that the
founders typically suffer greater
dilution. Now the final thing is
information rights. Investors almost
always want contractual information
rights about to get certain information
about your company. Um, giving periodic
information and status updates is not a
bad thing. In fact, at YC, we encourage
companies to give monthly updates to
their investors because it's a great
opportunity to ask for help for your
from your investors like um
introductions or help with hiring, that
kind of thing. But you have to be really
careful about overreach. any investor
who's saying they want like a monthly
budget or weekly
update that's not
okay. So the takeaway here is that just
because the type of financing and the
valuation has been negotiated doesn't
mean that everything else is
unimportant. You need to know everything
about your
financing. Okay. So then moving on to
after you've got that money, um you
know, you've raised some money, the the
company bank account's probably showing
more zeros in it than you've ever seen
in your life. So So then what? Um this
is where you actually start incurring
business expenses. And business expenses
are the cost of carrying out your
business. So things like paying
employees, um paying rent for an office,
hosting costs, acquiring customers, that
kind of thing. And business expenses are
important because they get deducted on
the company's tax return to offset any
revenues that are made to lower the
taxes that the company pays. And on the
flip side, if it's a non-b businessiness
expense that the company incurs, then
that is not deductible on the tax
return. So that can increase the profits
that the company then have to pay tax
on. So again this is this is a
separation issue. Um the company will
have its own bank account and that's
where the company's expenses should be
paid out of. Um again you know thinking
about this from a from a large company
if you were working at Google you would
not use a Google credit card to buy a
toothbrush and toothpaste.
So the other thing to remember is that
you know the investors gave you this
money. They trusted you with all these
huge amounts of of of money and they
want you to use that money to make the
company a
success. It's not your money for you to
spend how you please. And believe me,
we've had some horror stories of
founders who take that approach. Uh we
had we had one founder that we knew of
who took investor money and went off to
Vegas and boy by his Facebook photos did
he have a good time. Uh needless to say
is no longer with the company. Um but
really this is this is stealing from the
investors.
Um, you know, think about it, the the
concept of business expenses can get a
little bit blurry, especially in the
early days when you're working outside,
working in your apartment, and you're
working 24 hours a day. But the way to
think about it is if an investor asked
me what I'd spent their money on and I
had to give a line by line breakdown of
that, would I be embarrassed about
telling any of the telling them what any
of those lines were? And if you were,
it's probably not a business
expense. So the other thing to bear in
mind is that, you know, you're busy
running your company at 90 miles an
hour, just constant constant. So you
don't have to necessarily think about
the bookkeeping and accounting at that
point. But it's really crucial that you
do keep the receipts so that when you do
engage a bookkeeper or a CPA to prepare
your tax returns, they can unpick all of
this and they can figure out what are
business expenses and what aren't
business expenses. But they're going to
need your help as a founder because they
aren't going to know what all these
things are. So there is some involvement
from you. And the way to make the
involvement the least amount possible is
to keep those documents in a safe place
so that you can refer back to
them. So if nothing else that you
remember, do not go to Vegas on
investors money and spend that money
wisely. Okay. So um in this section
we're going to talk about just doing
business and we're going to hit a couple
of
uh couple of topics in this section. And
so the first one is founder
employment. Why are we talking about
founder employment? Because as we said a
couple times already, the company is a
separate legal entity. It exists
completely separate apart from you as
founders. And so no matter how
prestigious we in the valley think the
title founder is, you're really just a
company employee. And founders have to
be paid. Working for free is against the
law. And founders should not let their
company take on this liability. You
wouldn't work for free anywhere else. So
why is your startup an exception? And
companies have to pay payroll taxes. We
had a YC company that completely blew
off their payroll taxes for 3 years. It
was a huge expensive disaster and in
extreme cases, people can actually go to
jail for that. Fortunately, not in this
case, but um it's bad. So the moral of
this story is set up a payroll service.
This is something that is worth spending
your money on.
But and I actually think I'm sure some
of the other lectures have touched on
this point and actually Kirsty just
mentioned it too. Don't go overboard on
lavish salaries. Minimum wage. This is
still a startup and you have to run
lean. So now I'm going to mention
founder breakups. And um first well what
is a founder breakup? In this context,
I'm talking about one f founder on the
team being asked to leave the company,
which because I've just said founders
are employees, that means your
co-founders are firing you. Um, so why
are we talking about breakups in the
context of founder
compensation? And it's because, um, at
YC, we have seen a ton of founder
breakups. And we know that the breakups
get extra ugly when the founders haven't
paid
themselves. Why? How does it get ugly?
um unpaid wages become leverage for the
fired founder to get something he or she
wants from the company and typically
that is vesting
acceleration. So the fire founder says,
"Hey, my lawyer says you broke the law
by not paying me."
Um but if you pay me and you give me
some shares that I'm actually not really
entitled to, I'll sign a release and
make all this ugliness go away. And if
you're the remaining co-founders, you're
probably like, "Sounds like a good
deal." And so now you have a disgruntled
person who owns a piece of your company.
And even worse, in a sense, the
remaining founders are kind of working
for that exfounder, right? Because
they're building all the value in the
company. And the ex-founder who got
fired is just sitting there with their
shares going, "That's right. Make it
valuable." So what's the takeaway here?
Avoid problems by paying yourself,
paying your payroll taxes, and thinking
of your co-founder's wages like a
marital
prenup. And as well as the founders, you
are going to need to hire employees. And
again, a lot's been spoken in previous
in previous classes here about how to
find those people, what makes a good
fit, how to make them really productive
employees. But when you actually find
somebody, how how do you hire them? You
know, what's what's involved?
And employment is governed by a a huge
raft of laws. Um, and therefore it's
important to get this
right. It's again the kind of
nitty-gritty stuff that as long as you
know the basics, you can probably keep
yourself out of most situations, but as
soon as things get complicated, you need
to get yourself involved with a
specialist. So the first thing you need
to do is figure out if the employee or
if the person is really an employee or a
contractor. And there are subtle
differences to this classification and
this is important to get right because
the IRS takes a big interest in this and
if they think you've got it wrong they
will come after you and with fines.
Both an employee and a contractor will
sign documents that assign any IP that
they create to the company and that's
obviously really important but the the
form of the document is very different
for each each type of person and the
method of payment is very different. So
generally a contractor will be able to
set their own work hours. They'll be
able to set their own location. They
will be given a project where there is a
an end result, but how they actually get
to that and the means they use will will
not be set. Um, they'll be using their
own equipment and they'll not really
have any say in the day-to-day running
of the company or their strategy going
forward and a contractor will sign a
consulting agreement and then when the
company pays them, the company doesn't
withhold any taxes on their behalf. um
that's on the responsibility of the
individual. But at the end of the year,
the company will provide what's called a
form 1099 to the individual and also a
copy to the IRS which they'll use to
prepare their personal tax
returns. The opposite side of this is is
an employee. Um, and an employee will
also sign some form of IP assignment
agreement, but when the company pays
them, the company will withhold s taxes
from their salary and then the company
is responsible for paying those taxes
over to the relevant state and federal
authorities. And at the end of the year,
the employee receives what a W2 form,
which will then get used to prepare
their personal tax returns.
So, as Caroline has said that founders
need to be paid, so do employees. Um, it
isn't enough to just say, well, I'm
paying them in stock, so that can be
that can be their their
compensation. And they need to be paid
at least minimum wage. So, in San
Francisco, which actually has a slightly
higher minimum wage than than California
as a whole, that works out about $2,000
a month. So, you know, it's not a huge
amount, but it can add up.
There's also another couple of things
that you need to be you need to make
sure that you have if you have
employees. So the first thing is that
you're required to have workers
compensation insurance and especially if
you're in New York where the New York
authorities that look after this will
send really threatening letters saying
you owe $50,000 in fine because your one
employee that's being paid minimum wage
has not paid the $20 a month of workers
compensation fees. So it it is really
important that you do you do set that
up. And the other thing that's very
important is that you do need to see
proof that the employee is authorized to
work in the
US. You know founders are not payroll
experts and nobody expects you to be one
either. This is all just about the
basics. But what that does mean is that
you absolutely must use a payroll
service provider uh who will who will be
able to look after this for you. And
services like Zen Payroll are again set
up they're focused on startups and they
help you get this set up in the easiest
way possible so that again you can go
back and concentrate on on what you do
best. And in the example that Carolyn
gave just a few minutes ago, if that
company had actually set themselves up
with a payroll service provider, all of
that heartache would have gone away
because it would all have just been
looked after for them. They were trying
to save money by not doing it. And look
where it got
them. So that's that's really the key
thing. Use use a payroll service
provider and make sure that you
understand the basics of employment.
We're running short on time. Yeah. Um
Okay. So I can breeze through really
fast firing employees slide and then
should or should we cut it off now for
questions? What? Uh why don't we do
firing real fast? Okay. Okay. Okay. So
somebody at YC once said you're not a
real founder until you've had to fire
somebody. Why is that? Because firing
people is really hard. It's hard for a
lot of reasons. Uh including because
founders tend to hire their friends.
They tend to hire former co-workers or
they just get really close to their
employees because working at a startup
is really intense. But in every company,
there's going to be an employee who
doesn't work out. And firing a founder,
sorry, firing this employee makes a
founder a real professional because he
or she has to do what is right for the
company instead is what is easy. So, I
have um some best practices for how to
fire someone. Um number one, fire
quickly. Don't let a bad employee
linger. It's so easy to put off a
difficult conversation, but there is
only downside to procrastination. If a
toxic employee stays around too long,
good employees may quit. And if the
employee is actually screwing up the
job, you may lose business or
users. Number two, communicate
effectively. Don't rationalize. Don't
make excuses. Don't equivocate about why
you're firing the employee. Make clear,
direct statements. Don't apologize.
Example, we're letting you go. Not I'm
so sorry. sales didn't take off this
quarter, blah blah blah. Um, fire the
employee face to face and ideally with a
third party
present. Number three, pay all wages and
acrewed vacation immediately. This is a
legal requirement that we don't debate
or negotiate this. Number four, cut off
access to digital systems. Once an
employee is out the door, cut off
physical and digital access, control
information on in the cloud, change
passwords, etc. We we had a situation at
YC where one founder had access to the
company's GitHub account and held the
password hostage when his co-founders
tried to fire him. And number five, um
if the terminated employee has any
invested shares, the company should
repurchase them right away. So the
takeaway here is that as surprising as
this may sound, one of the hallmarks of
a really effective startup founder is
how well he or she handles employee
terminations. Uh okay. So then we had
this section that we called legitimacy
which actually kind of goes into a
little bit more about um you know how to
be how to be a real company, how to be
sort of a grown-up company and we can
totally jettison. Is this the last
slide?
Uh no, that could be the last slide. We
have our take the last slide. Okay. So
um Chrissy, you want to read the
takeaways? Okay. So we we've pretty much
covered all of these anyway. Um, but you
know, the basic the basic tenant to all
of this is keep it simple, do all the
standard stuff and keep it organized.
Make sure you know what you're doing.
Um, equity ownership is really
important. So, make sure that you're
thinking about the future rather than
the three months of the history of the
company. And stock doesn't buy itself.
So, again, make sure you do the
paperwork for
that. Make sure that you actually know
about the financing documents that
you're signing up to. It's not enough to
just say, "Yeah, I'll take your 100K."
Make sure you actually know those
rights. And you need to get paid. You
and the employees need to be paid. And
then everybody needs to assign IP to the
company because if the company does not
own that IP, there is no value in the
company. If an employee must be fired,
then as Caroline as Caroline was saying,
do it quickly and professionally.
Uh the couple of things that we didn't
mention was knowing your key metrics at
any time. You should know the cash
position. You should know your burn
rate. You should know when that cash is
going to run out. Um so that you can
talk to your investors about that. And
you know, a lot of running a company is
following the rules and taking it
seriously. It's not all the glamorous
bits that we see in all the movies and
and TV shows. So you do have to take
that seriously.
Okay. So, it was shorter when we did it
the first time. So, forget about that.
Sorry. You can get like two questions
in. Sure. Yeah.
How do you advise searching for an
accountant and when in the process do
you need them? So, there's two So, the
question was, how do you advise
searching for an accountant and when do
you um when at what point do you do
this? So, there's two different things.
There's a bookkeeper and there's a CPA,
an accountant. And generally bookkeepers
will be the ones who can categorize all
your expenses and CPAs are the ones that
will prepare your tax
returns. Um in the very very early days
it's probably fine for the founders to
just be able to see the bank statements
and to be able to see those expenses
coming out. But tax returns have to be
prepared annually. And so at some point
in that first year of the company's
life, some service is going to need to
be engaged to do that because it's just
not worth the founders's time to do it.
Um there are services available like
Indairo which kind of try to to um make
things as as effortless as possible from
the founders's point of view. So that
kind of thing is quite useful. But you
do need to get a CPA at some point
because you need to file your annual tax
returns for the company. or how do you
find one? Um, finding one is kind of
tough. Probably the best thing is
recommendations from people with with
any kind of specialist, a CPA or an
account, a lawyer or anything like that,
it's always best to use people who are
used to dealing with startups. Again,
not your sort of, you know, your aunt
who lives in Minnesota and doesn't
actually know how startups work. So,
probably recommendations are the best
way.
All things considered, budgeting my
budget for, you know, incorporating with
a lawyer, for getting legal advice for
my first seat round, and then for hiring
the first employees, how much money do I
set aside for that?
So, in terms of incorporation, don't
spend a dime on that. You can do that
online. Well, actually, I'm sorry, it
does cost a little bit. Um,
incorporating online using a a service
like Clerky, which Kirsty mentioned, is
inexpensive, like in the hundreds, not
in the thousands. So you don't need a
lawyer for that part. When you actually
need to hire a lawyer is it kind of
depends on what business you are
starting. Um and how complicated it is
in terms of you know are do you have a
lot of privacy policies? You is HIPPA
involved? I mean you can imagine there's
like a ton um and so and also then you
mentioned when you're raising your seed
round well how much money are you
raising and who are the investors and
what kind of terms are in the term
sheet? Sometimes that dictates whether
or not you need to get legal counsel
with and again a service like clerky can
help if you are just using very standard
documents for the fundraising. There are
just very basic vanilla fundraising
documents. So you can use those and
again they they cost you know less less
than $100 I think. Um which can which
can save you some legal fees.
One more question. Uh do you want to
pick? Uh should we go back over this
side? I'm going to
ignore. Let's go up here. Um, do you
guys have any advice or comment on the
complexity that comes with working with
cryptocurrencies or crypto equities in
particular? Like if you're fundraising
since that's becoming more and more
popular. Oh wow, that's a tough question
to end with. Um, yes, there are some
there are some issues. Often banks will
struggle to deal with with companies
that are working in cryptocurrencies
because they haven't quite figured out
how to to deal with it and and that sort
of thing yet. Um, generally a lot of it
it it it's very product specific. It's
it's not something that kind of has real
general advice, unfortunately.
Okay. Thank you very much. You're
welcome.