Title: How to Get Started, Doing Things that Don't Scale, and Press (How to Start a Startup 2014: 8)
Video ID: sr0UabJd8qE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sr0UabJd8qE
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-03-27T18:00:43Z
Duration: PT52M25S
Views: 57866
Likes: 1147
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Startup, Lecture, Stanford, Class, Sam Altman, How to start a startup, startup school, stanley tang, walker williams, justin kan
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1409

Description:
How to Start a Startup is a series of video lectures, initially given at Stanford in Fall 2014.

Lecture Transcript: http://www.tech.genius.com/William-sydney-walker-lecture-8-doing-things-that-dont-scale-pr-and-how-to-get-started-annotated

Lecture 8 features 3 speakers:
Stanley Tang, Founder of Doordash, covers How to Get Started.
Walker Williams, Founder of Teespring, covers Doing things that Don't Scale.
Justin Kan, Founder of TwitchTV and Partner at Y Combinator, covers Press.

See the slid

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thanks for having me, Sam. Um, I'm
Stanley. I'm the founder of Door Dash.
And it's it's really amazing to be here
because it wasn't actually that long ago
where I sat in in your seats. Um, I was
class of 2014, um, graduated in CS as
well as my co-founder Andy. And,
uh, for those of you who don't know what
Door Dash is, we're building an ondemand
delivery network for local cities. And I
want to start off with this photo that I
took just a few months ago. And I think
it this was the the night when we just
raised our series A. And I took this
photo as I was um walking back to where
I lived. I actually lived in Robbley at
the time on campus. And um I took this
photo because I realized just how
ridiculous the combinations of things I
was holding in my hand at the time. you
know, I was holding my CS247 homework.
Um, and then I had a my tax forms since
it was April and I had to fill out
taxes. And then also that yellow
speeding ticket. And then right below
that was the was a $15 million piece of
paper I just signed uh from Sequoia. And
that kind of summarizes just how
ridiculous our our journey has been. you
know, starting at Stanford, doing this
while I was at Stanford and then
transitioning this into an actual
startup. And I want to share that story
with you today. Um, it all began two
years ago actually in a macaroon store.
Um, it was my junior year at Stamford.
This was fall quarter and at the time I
was really passionate about, you know,
how do you build technology for small
business owners? And I sat down with
Khloe, the owner of, you know, Shantel
Gon, um, a macaroon store in Palto at
the time, just interviewing her, you
know, trying to get feedback on this on
this product prototype we've been
working on and also just learning about,
you know, what her problems were in
general. And it was during this meeting
when Chloe first brought up this problem
of of delivery. you know, she I remember
she took out this really really thick
booklet and she showed me um pages and
pages of delivery orders and a lot of
these orders she had to turn down
because there's no way she could have
fulfilled them. You know, she had no
drivers and she was the one who ended up
having to personally deliver all these
orders and and that was a a very
interesting moment for us. And and then
we throughout the next over the next
course of over the course of the next
few weeks we talked to you know around
another 150 200 small business owners
and when we brought up this idea of
delivery they kept you know they kept
you know agreeing with us saying yeah
this is this is a really big problem for
us you know we don't have you know
delivery infrastructure um it's such a
huge pain for us there's there's not any
good solutions out there and which which
led us to wonder you know delivery is
such a common thing such an obvious
thing why hasn't Hasn't anyone solved
this before, right? Like we we must be
missing something here. So we thought
maybe maybe because people have tried
this in the past, right? But they failed
because there wasn't consumer demand for
this. So we thought, okay, how can we
test this hypothesis? Um, you know, we
were just a bunch of college kids at the
time. You know, we didn't own trucks or
delivery infrastructures or or anything
like that, right? We you can't just we
can't just spin up a a delivery company
overnight. So, how can we test this
assumption we had? So, we decided to
create a simple experiment um with
restaurant delivery. We spent about an
afternoon just putting together a really
quick landing page and when I went on
the internet, I found some PDF menus of,
you know, restaurants in Palto. um stuck
it up there and then had a phone number
at the bottom and and which was our
personal cell phone number actually and
and that was it. We we we put up the
landing page. We called it
paltodely.com and this is actually what
it looked like. Um you know super super
you know simple ugly like honestly we we
weren't really expecting anything. We
just launched it and all we wanted to
see was um you know would we get phone
calls from this and if we got enough
phone calls then then maybe this was
this delivery idea was something worth
pursuing. So we put it up there. We
weren't really expecting anything and we
were we're driving back home and all of
a sudden we got a got a phone call. You
know someone called they wanted to order
Thai food and we're like oh wow like
this is this is a real order. um like
you know we have to do something about
it, right?
So so we're in our cars and and um we're
we're like okay like we're not doing
anything right now. Uh might as well
just let's just stream by you know Sam
Royale pick up some patai and and let's
let's deliver it to this person and and
let's try to learn how this whole
delivery thing works. And and we did. We
delivered to this guy in up in Alpine
Road. I remember um he he told us he was
a I was asking me oh how did he hear
about us you know what did he do he told
us he was a he was a scholar and then he
handed me his business card and it said
he was the author of a book called weed
the people and that was like our first
ever delivery right it was it was like
the best deliver first delivery slash
worst delivery you could have asked for
um we couldn't make this stuff up and
and and yeah and then the Next day we
got you know two more phone calls. They
day after that we got five and then it
became seven and then became 10 and then
soon we started gaining traction on
campus with powto
delivery.com which was which is um which
is pretty crazy because think about it
right this was a a landing page um you
had to look up PDF menus to place your
order and they had to call in. um this
isn't exactly the most professional
looking site yet people were still we
step we kept getting phone calls we kept
getting orders and and that's kind of
when when we knew we were on to
something um when people are
willing like we knew we found this need
people wanted when people are willing to
put up with all this so I think another
key point um to remember is that we
launched this in about an hour right
like we didn't spend you know we didn't
have any drivers we didn't have any
algorithms. Uh we didn't spend, you
know, we didn't have a back end. We
didn't spend six months building like a
fancy dispatch system and we didn't have
any of that. We just launched. Um
because at the beginning, none of that
is necessary, right? At the beginning,
it's all about testing your idea, trying
to get this thing off the ground, and
figuring out whether this was something
people even wanted. And it's okay to to
hack things together at the beginning.
Um at YC there's a mantra we uh we like
to talk about is doing things that don't
scale. So at the beginning we were the
delivery drivers. Um you know we would
you know go to class and then after
class we'll go you know deliver food. Uh
we were the you know customer support
like I sometimes had to take phone calls
during lecture. Um, we we had to we we
spent afternoons just going down
University Avenue passing out flyers
about trying to promote Door Dash. Um, I
mean, we didn't have any dispatch
system. So, what we had to do was, you
know, we use Square to charge all of our
customers. Uh, we used Google Docs to
keep track of our orders. Um, we we use
Apple's Find My Friends to keep track of
where all of our drivers were, you know,
stuff like that. um just figuring out
like what just hacking together
solutions. You're trying to get this
thing off the ground. Um in fact, at one
point we were growing so fast that
Square actually shut our account down
because we were under suspicions for
moneyaundering. Um I mean, think about
it. We're getting small chunks of like
$15$20 orders coming in at a rapid pace.
Um it was Yeah. And luckily my
co-founder Tony worked at Square. So he
just emailed some buddies there and uh
everything was
solved. Yeah. And
um another thing about doing things that
don't scale is that it also allows you
to become an expert in your business,
right? Like driving helped us understand
how the whole delivery process worked.
You know, we used as an opportunity to
talk to our customers, talk to our
restaurants. Um, we did dispatching
which helped us figure out, you know,
how we manually dispatched every driver
and that helped us figure out, you know,
what our driver assignment algorithm
should look like. Um, we did customer
support ourselves, you know, getting
real-time feedback from from our
customers. I remember, you know, for the
first few months when we got started, we
would manually email every single one of
our new customers, um, and at the end of
every night and just asking them, "Oh,
how was your first delivery? How did you
hear about us?" And, and we would
personalize all these emails, right?
Like if I see someone ordered chicken
skewers from Orange Hummus, I would say,
"Oh, like I love Orange Hummus. Um, you
know, how how how are your chicken
skewers? um how did how did your first
delivery went? You know, just feedback
like that was was really valuable and
our customers really really appreciated
that. Um
and and I remember um one time this was
during YC. We were at a we just came out
of a meeting with our one of our
restaurant partners and you know we we
wanted we heard about this ice cream
store that just opened up you know on
University Avenue called Cream and we
wanted to go try it out and then all of
a sudden our co-founder back at our you
know
office/house texted us saying oh we need
drivers on the road. We we got a huge
spike in in demand. So we debated for
maybe you know 10 seconds like should we
go get ice cream or should we go go
deliver. Um obviously went and delivered
but that kind of became our motivation
on you know scaling right like if if we
can scale then we could go get ice cream
next
time. So so so yeah I think that kind of
um and and now of course we we've scaled
across different cities. Um, now you
have to worry about building out
automated solutions and and dispatch
systems and figuring out how do you
match demand and supply and all all that
fancy technology stuff, but none of it
matters at the beginning because at the
beginning it's all about getting this
thing off the ground and trying to find
um product market fit. So just to
summarize, so there's three things I
would say that I learned from from doing
door dashes. First, test your
hypothesis. You want to treat your
startup ideas like experiments. Um the
second thing is launch fast. We launched
in, you know, less than an hour with a
with a really simple landing page. And
and finally, it's okay to do things that
don't scale. Um doing things that don't
scale is one of your biggest competitive
advantages when you're starting out. And
you can figure out how to scale once you
have the demand. And and maybe once
you've scaled, then you could go get
that ice cream.
Thanks, Sure.
How did your first customers hear about?
Yeah. So question question was how did
our first customer hear about us? Um our
very first one I have no idea. Um we we
just launched political delivery.com. We
didn't do any marketing. Um so I assumed
he just must have typed in political
delivery into the the web browser. Um,
and then after that, we didn't do we did
barely any marketing. I think I sent out
like one email to my dorm and that was
about it. It was all through word of
mouth and and that kind of just
validates, you know, just how strong of
a need you found, you know, when people
just start talking about you and they're
willing to put up with all this um, you
know, terrible user experience, terrible
design and stuff like that.
when you started um it seemed so obvious
to you wondering why has no one done
this. What's your answer now looking
back? Yeah, I mean looking back I think
um I think the biggest thing is is
mobile um the fact that now everyone has
one of those in their pocket and we kind
of saw that trend and and thought you
know what if you can design you know a
delivery system that was entirely based
off mobile you know where you don't have
you didn't have have to have any
infrastructure um or delivery fleets
instead you could you know instead of
hiring drivers full time purchasing
vehicles. What if you can tap into a
more of an ondemand pool of independent
contractors and only send orders to them
um when when they have time? So, so
that's kind of the the insight we had.
We everything was done through mobile.
Yeah. Um did you know we were going to
be a startup or we just making some
money at first? Yeah, I mean at the time
we just wanted we're all really
passionate about building technology for
small business owners. Um and and
honestly this delivery thing came out of
an experiment right with the landing
page like it was it was literally an
experiment. We we didn't we weren't
expecting anything and it just took off
and and we went with it. And logistics
was always something we were really
passionate about as well, you know, like
logistics, transportation, and it's kind
of the perfect fusion of, you know, how
do you help small business owners
through
delivery back? Yeah. Do you launch the
mobile app first or the website? And how
long did it take from idea
to the first launch? Yeah, it was we
started with this this this landing page
right here. Um, took us an hour to
launch.
Um, how does Door Dash stand out in a
space filled with Postmates and Seamless
and other companies? Yeah.
Um, yeah, the question was how does Door
Dash stand out among a very competitive
space? I mean I mean in the beginning I
mean for us consumer demand has never
been the problem even up until now. So
for us it's just about you know finding
a need and and just focusing on serving
that serving that demand. So at the
beginning competition doesn't really
matter when you're getting started.
How long did you did it incorporate into
a company after you first deliver? Yeah.
Question was how long it took for us to
incorporate into a company. um when we
went through YC. So we launched in
January 2013 and then we did YC that
very summer and we when we decided to
take this idea through YC we incorporate
it.
Let's do one more question. One more.
[Music]
Um yeah you what do you plan to do next
or where do you plan to go with this
besides like food delivery? Yeah I mean
the question was where do we plan to go
beyond food delivery? I mean for us the
when we started Door Dash it was always
you know like I said about you know
helping small business owners and
figuring out you know how do you serve
this for any local merchant whether you
are a macaroon store or a restaurant um
or a furniture
shop. I mean like that's still our
focus. Um that's like the long-term
vision for now. We're just focused on
restaurant delivery as a way to scale.
Um, but ultimately that's where we want
to end up in. Cool. Thanks.
Okay, next is uh Walker Williams from
Teespring. Uh, Teespring went through YC
year and a half ago, something like
that. Yeah. Uh, I almost rejected them.
Um, sounds like a dumb idea, but uh, now
they're getting hundreds of millions of
dollars a year of revenue. So, very
luckily I not going to talk also about
doing things that don't scale.
All right, thank you guys for having me.
Uh, my name is Walker. I'm the CEO and
founder of Teespring. Uh, for those of
you guys who don't know what Teespring
is, we're an e-commerce platform that
allows entrepreneurs to launch products
and apparel brands uh without risk,
cost, or compromise. Today, the company
is about 180 folks uh and we ship tens
of thousands of products each day. Uh,
and I want to talk to you about one of
the most fundamental advantages you have
as a startup. And that's that you're
able to do things that don't scale. And
I define things that don't scale as
things that are sort of fundamentally
unsustainable. They will not last. They
will not bring in the millionth user.
Uh, and where they break, it's it's
usually time, but it could be a number
of other things. But it's really growth
strategies that won't take you to a
million users. And there's three real
places I want to focus on today. Uh the
first one is finding your first users.
The second one is turning those users
into champions. And the third one is
finding your product and market
fit. So finding your first
users, the first thing you have to
understand is that there is no silver
bullet for user acquisition. Uh you know
everybody and and this includes me when
we got started. you look for that that
dream solution, that pay-per-click
campaign that has tremendous ROI, uh
some accelerating partnership that's
going to springboard you into the
stratosphere, an affiliate agreement,
something that solves it for you. But
the reality is for the vast majority of
companies, and in fact, for every
company that I've had the chance to
speak to the CEO of, that's just not
possible. Those are unicorns. And most
of the companies that from the outside
look like they've had this dream growth
curve, the reality is that those first
users were impossibly hard to
get. And let me tell you the story of a
ridiculously unsustainable business. So
this is Teespring in 2012. Uh when we
first got when we first
launched the the business couldn't have
looked worse. It took days of meetings.
We had to offer free design, days of
revisions back and forth. We'd have to
launch the product ourselves. We'd have
to do the social media all to sell like
50 shirts for a local nonprofit uh and
generate $1,000 of revenue. Anybody
looking in would have said, "You guys
need to give up. This is a terrible
idea." Uh but as time went on, those
users start to add up. And you know, I
think something you have to understand
is that when when you first launch a
company just by virtue of the fact that
it's a new product, you're going to be
bad at selling it, right? You've got no
idea what the pain points of customers
really are. Uh you've never sold it
before. You don't have any success
stories to point to or testimonials.
Those first users are always going to be
the hardest. And so it's your
responsibility as a founder to do
whatever it takes to bring in your first
users. And you know it's going to be
different for every company. The common
thread that I hear is founders need to
spend personal time and effort a lot of
their personal time and effort to bring
those users in themselves. Uh you know
it can mean a number of things.
Everything from sending 100 emails a
day, getting on the phone and just
calling as many people as you can. Uh
going through a network if you have a
network like Stanford or Y Combinator.
uh anything you can do to get that first
user. And you know, I really equate it
to uh pushing a boulder up a hill. And
if you think of like a very sort of
smooth hill, the when you get started,
the incline is the steepest. And those
first inches are the hardest. And over
time, as you get farther and farther,
the incline steadies out. It gets
easier. And hopefully eventually you
reach a point where you're at the top of
the hill and the boulder starts to roll
on its own. And so those first users,
you just cannot focus on ROI in the
sense of time. Do not expect to spend an
hour and return thousands of dollars.
Maybe Stanley is one of those unicorns.
That was a pretty incredible story. But
for for most of us, uh those first users
are going to take a lot of handholding,
a lot of personal love, and that's okay.
That's essential for building a company.
Uh, and the one sort of caveat of that
is that I don't recommend giving away
your product for free. And there's
plenty of exceptions to this rule, but
in general, cutting costs or giving the
product away is an unsustainable
strategy I wouldn't recommend. You need
to make sure that users value your
product. Uh, and you know, people have a
different they treat products that are
free in a in a much different way than a
paid product. And oftent times it can
give you a false sense of security of oh
we're getting all these users surely we
can convert them over to
paid. The second aspect is what happens
when you get those users. How do you
turn those users into champions? And a
champion is a user who talks about and
advocates for your product. And I'm a
firm believer that every company with a
great growth strategy has users who are
champions. Uh, and so really the easiest
way to build t a user into a champion is
to delight them with an experience
they're going to remember. So something
that's unusual or out of the ordinary uh
an exceptional experience. And the
easiest way to do this early and again
something that is completely
unsustainable, it's not going to scale
forever is to just talk to those users.
And pe people will say this all the time
and you hear it's one of the sort of
core tenants of Y Combinator is talk to
users. But I I cannot stress how
important it is that you spend a large
chunk of your time talking to users. Uh
and you should do it constantly every
single day and as long as possible. Uh
today at Teespring I'm still the
catchall email address. So anytime
somebody misspells support or writes an
email address that doesn't exist, I get
that email. And so I still do about 12
to 20 customer service tickets every
single day. Uh I spend hours each night
reading every single tweet. Probably a
little bit OCD, but that's okay. Uh I
read through all the Teespring
communities. You're never going to get a
better sense for your product than
actually listening to real users. Uh,
and especially in the early days, you're
just the product you launch with and the
feature set you launch with is almost
certainly not going to be the feature
set that you scale with. And the quicker
you talk to users and learn what they
actually need, the faster you can get to
that
point. So, there's three ways to talk to
your customers. Uh, you can run customer
service yourself. Uh, up until Teespring
was doing about 130 $140,000 a month. Uh
my co-founder Evan and I did everything
in customer service. Uh this is one that
there's going to be an instinct to
quickly pass off. Uh and that's because
it's painful. Uh even today when I open
our customer service portal, uh I I have
like an emotional reaction where my
stomach sinks because it sucks talking
to users who have had a terrible
experience and it's painful. is
something that you love and you've put
so much effort into and you've gotten it
wrong or they've had a terrible
experience or somebody didn't treat them
right. Uh but it's so important that you
go through that and learn what you need
to build, what you need to fix. Uh the
second step is to proactively reach out
to current and churned customers and and
churned customers or customers who have
left. And this is one that that often
falls by the wayside in the sort of the
pursuit of new customers, but you want
to make sure that your customers are
having a consistent good experience. You
don't want to just leave those current
users as sort of you don't want to take
them for granted. And then when a user
actually leaves your service, you want
to reach out and find out why. Both
because that personal outreach can make
the difference between leaving and
staying. Sometimes people just need to
know that you care and it's going to get
better. Uh, and because even if you
can't bring them back, there's a chance
that you can learn from the mistake you
made that caused them to leave and fix
it so you don't churn users out the same
way in the future. And the final one is
again the one that I'm probably too OCD
about, but it's social media and
communities. You need to know how people
are talking about your brand. You need
to reach out and make sure that uh when
somebody does have a bad experience and
they're talking about it that you make
it
right. Problems are inevitable in
startups. There's going to be issues.
You're not going to have the perfect
product. Things are going to break.
Things are going to go wrong. That's not
important. What's important is to always
make it right. To always go the extra
mile and make that customer happy. One
detractor who's had a terrible
experience on your platform is enough to
reverse the progress of 10 champions.
It's all it takes is one person out
there to say, "Ah, no, you shouldn't use
those guys for X, Y, and Z reason to
ruin a ton of momentum." Uh, so even if
it's uh, you know, there's examples in
the early days where we would mess up
massive orders, we'd print the color
slightly wrong, it would be the wrong
size, and it would be like half of our
GMV for that month. And we would know we
got it wrong. the customer would be
unhappy and sort of this instinct is
well, you know, it's it's only a little
bit off or it's not completely wrong.
It'll be fine. But the reality is you
just got to bite the bullet and make
sure that it's right. And those
customers, the customers that are often
originally the most frustrated tend to
turn into the biggest champions and the
longest term
users. And the last one I want to talk
about is finding product and market fit.
And what I mean by that is that you know
I mentioned this earlier but the product
you launch with will almost certainly
not be the product that takes you to
scale. Uh and so your job in those early
moments in those early days of a startup
is to progress and iterate as fast as
possible to reach that product that does
have market fit. And as engineers, your
instinct is going to be to build a
platform with beautiful clean code that
scales, right? You you don't want to
write uh sort of duct tape code that's
going to pile on technical debt. But you
need to optimize for speed over
scalability and clean code. And and sort
of an example of this is in the early
days, we had a couple enterprise
customers come to us, sort of bigger
nonprofits, and say, "Hey, we really
like your service, but you're missing
these fundamental things, so we can't
we're not going to use it." Uh, and we
looked at sort of what it would take to
build out those features. And we weren't
sure they were going to work long term,
but we wanted to try it. Uh, and my
co-founder Evan, who is uh, our CTO and
a million times uh, better developer
than I am, sort of ran the math and
figured out that if we did it the right
way, it was going to take about a month
to build out these features. And in a
startup, a month, you know, you live in
dog years, a month is a year, and that
just wasn't going to do. So he actually
went out, duplicated the codebase,
duplicated the the database, and was
able to basically build a completely
different product that he didn't have to
worry about the existing users for to
serve these enterprise customers. We
gave them the tool, they onboarded, they
generated a lot of revenue. Eventually,
we learned what features were core and
we integrated them into the core
product. But what would have taken a
month, we were able to do in, you know,
3 to four days.
A great rule of thumb is to only worry
about the next uh order of m magnitude.
So when you have your 10th user, you
shouldn't be wondering, well, how are we
going to serve a million users? You
should be worried about how are we going
to get to 100? Uh when you're at 100,
you should think about a thousand. It's
it's one of those things where necessity
is the mother of invention of all
inventions. So when you hit that
breaking point like the Twitter fail
whale is a great example and Teespring
there were months month stretches where
every single night the site would crash
every night and and during the day and
every single person on the team would go
to sleep with their phone on loud under
their pillow so that inevitably when the
buzzer went off we could quickly get up
restart the servers and go back to
sleep. And this would happen daily. But
the reality is that it was worth it. And
you know, you'll end up with these huge
pain points and all this technical debt
and regret. Uh but it it's worth it just
to get to that end goal and that product
fit faster. You will make it work. You
will survive. Uh that those sort of
bumps are just speed bumps and speed is
so so important early.
So, the the lesson that I've been
learning lately is uh you know, you want
to do these things that don't scale as
long as possible. There's not some
magical moment. It's not the series A.
It's not when you hit a certain revenue
milestone that you stop doing things
that don't scale. This is one of your
biggest advantages as a company. And the
moment you give it up, you're giving
your competitors that are smaller that
can still do these things that advantage
over you. So, as long as humanly
possible, as long as it is a net
positive, you need to be spending time
talking to your users. You need to move
fast in development as fast as possible.
Uh, but don't give it up willingly. It
should be ripped from
you. And so, sort of trying to practice
what I preach. Uh, I want to give you
guys my email address. If you guys have
any questions, if you want to learn
about Teespring, if you want to print
some t-shirts, fingers crossed, just
shoot me an email. Uh I I'd love to help
and I'd love to speak to you. And the
last thing is we've uh created an
official how to start a startup tea with
Sam. Uh and all proceeds are going to
Watsi. I couldn't miss this opportunity
to sell. Uh so if if you guys want to
grab one of the official TE's, just go
to
teespring.com/startup and it's
supporting a great cause. Thank
you.
Sure. Go ahead.
Yeah. Um the t-shirt printing business
uh it seems like it has um a lot of
common. So what made you uh what
convinced you um to think this is a
viable market uh even when doing well
initially? You know so the question was
uh the t-shirt printing business has a
lot of competition. What would convince
us to get into the market? Uh I I think
there's two factors to it. So first I I
completely agree from the outside. Uh
people have been telling us that this is
a silly idea since day one. Uh and sort
of at every order of magnitude we reach
people will come and say hey that's a
terrible terrible idea. Why are you
doing that? Uh but the reason that we
launched Teespring is because we ran
into a personal pain point where we had
a need and we looked at the current
solutions. I was a student at Brown and
I was trying to create a remember the
bar shirt for a dive bar that got shut
down and I realized that nothing needed
nothing matched my needs. Uh and so
because I knew that I had that pain
point and I knew there was market fit
and I had seen people adopt the product,
I knew there was something there. Uh and
it was also one of those things where
you you can sort of feel the you can you
can sort of feel the wind on your back
where people are adopting the product
quickly. uh your the pain point is
clearly there. It's not a met need. So I
would say that oftentimes great ideas
start look by looking like silly ideas
and then you can sort of feel out
whether or not there's a scalable
business here by how people are adopting
it. Is it possible to bring customers
aboard?
Sure. Are nonprofits your biggest
customer base?
No, you know, today our biggest customer
base are uh entrepreneurs who are trying
to build brands and businesses. You
know, we have uh a little over a
thousand people that make their
full-time living on Teespring today uh
via brands they've launched. And the
other side is influencers. So, uh
YouTube stars, Reddit communities,
bloggers who want to add product
merchandise as a way to sort of create a
brand and and monetize that affinity.
So, those are our two biggest markets.
We still do work with a lot of
nonprofits uh and love working with
them. Uh it's still a part of our
business, just not the majority. Thank
you. Yeah.
All right. Justin was the founder of
Kiko and then Justin TV which switched
and is now part of comator and is going
to talk about VR.
Cool. Well, while I wait for the slide
to happen, um I started a bunch of
startups, but I think you've heard a lot
of awesome, you know, kind of how did I
get started stories. So, I'm going to
talk about something very specific uh
that people always have questions with,
which is press and like how do you get
it? How does it work? Uh it's something,
this is kind of like an a bridged
version of uh what we talk about at Y
Cominator. And um hopefully you guys
will find it helpful. So uh you know a
lot of people I think when they first
get started with entrepreneurship think
about getting press and being in the
press as something that happens
magically. They think about it as like
something that you know journalists are
like out there like trying to find the
best stories and really you know like
discover the like it's like a
meritocracy. Um which is like absolutely
not the case. Um, so before you think
about press, one of the things you
really want to think about is who you
want to reach and like what's your
actual goal, right? A lot of people like
I know when I got started, I wanted to
just be in the news because I thought
that's what like you did as an important
company. And it turns out it if you
don't have any goals, you're not going
to achieve them, right? I mean that's
true of like pretty much everything. And
with press, if you just like aimlessly
want to be covered, um, it's not really
going to do anything for your startup.
So getting like in the news is nice
because you can send it to your mom or
and say, "Hey, I have a real job." You
know, look, we're in the New York Times,
but if you don't have a actual um goal
for your like a business goal with it,
it's really just like not a good use of
time. Um so, you know, there's many
different goals. Uh, one example is, you
know, you might want to with with Social
Cam, which was a spin-off of Justin TV.
Uh, it was like an app that was kind of
like video Instagram. And our goal was
really to be known as like a video like
Instagram app and like be thought of in
that context when it was, you know, time
to uh, pitch our like Silicon Valley
investors and and influencers. And so we
really wanted to get in like tech press
and um kind of be positioned as this
like new hot social app. Um with uh
Exec, one of my goals um was the second
like to get customers. So uh Exec was
like a cleaning local cleaning service
and our goal was to get people in San
Francisco to use it. It wasn't like
useful to get national press because uh
you know 99% of those people couldn't
use it. So, we really targeted initially
a lot of, you know, like SF Chronicle
and a like local San Francisco press
that would directly talk to people who
could potentially use our app. Um, for
Twitch, which is probably the thing that
you guys mostly know, uh, it was, you
know, Twitch was a ESPN for gaming or
kind of like a live streaming community
of of gamers. And uh our goal was to
with press was like to reach the gaming
industry cuz like when we when we
started now it's like 55 million uniques
and like people in the gaming industry
know about it but when we started nobody
really knew that like it was a place to
advertise and like it wasn't like known
as like a you know we were very nent
small gaming community and our goal was
to like get people in the gaming
industry whether they were developers or
advertisers to think about us as like an
important place where like influencers
were. So we really targeted, you know,
industry trades and game dev blogs and
places where like gamers were, you know,
games beat stuff like that the industry
was
reading. So um you know what's an actual
story? I think there's you know there's
a bunch of different types of stories.
Um but these are usually the ones that
you see in um you know startups. Uh
those are like product launches like you
let just launched a new version of your
app. Uh there's fundraising for whatever
reason uh you know press loves to write
about fundraising even though it's not
very interesting. Uh so you know like if
you raise a million dollar seed round
pretty much you can get that covered. Um
milestones or metrics like you've
achieved a million dollars uh um a week
in revenue that one of our um one of our
the the company that bought Exec just uh
announced that they they achieved a
million dollars a week in revenue and it
was covered pretty widely. um like
business stories which generally happen
when you're like already a successful
company. Someone you like a New York
Times or New Yorker business magazine
will like want to cover like kind of the
story of your startup. Um usually don't
have to worry about that in the
beginning. uh what I like to call
stunts, which are like um I don't know
if you guys remember, but a couple years
ago, this YC company called We Pay uh
dropped a block of ice with money frozen
in it outside of the PayPal like a
PayPal developers conference because
they were like PayPal was like no in the
news for freezing um you know like
various uh developers accounts and so
that was like got widely covered because
it was just so you know kind of an
interesting thing and and it really um
it it got them in the story right they
wouldn't been talked about in the
context of PayPal at all really. Um,
hiring announcements. If you're a big
enough company and you hire someone
really important, people will want to
cover that. And then contributed
articles like you writing some sort of
industry overview or some opinion piece
in like maybe a tech blog or um site
like that. So those are like you know
basically any of those things can can be
stories. One of the things that um
people usually don't think about is that
you know you really have to think about
like everything when you start a startup
you think that everything you're doing
is interesting but um that's not true
for like other people right like you
what you need really need to think about
is like objectively if I wasn't the
founder of this company would I want to
like read a story about what I'm
pitching right so you know your
incremental feature release your 2.01
know one you know feature release might
not be interesting if like just because
you added like a you know find your
contacts in Facebook or something like
you have to you really want to take a
step back before you invest the time in
like actually trying to pitch a story
and think does anyone will anyone
actually want to read this because what
people are you know journalists and
bloggers are looking for is things that
people actually want to read right um
the other thing is like you don't
actually have to be very original your
press in news doesn't have to be
original um you know like you
You just have to be like what I like to
call original enough, right? So, you
don't want to be the second cooler
company to raise $5 million on
Kickstarter, right? That's like the
first guy gets like all the news. But
like if you're the um I think the first
uh video game console to raise $10
million on Kickstarter like Ouya was,
that was like or they raised like a
million dollars in in 24 hours, that was
like huge news because they were kind of
like the first in that category, right?
Even though other people had raised a
lot of money on Kickstarter before. Um,
so just like think about your stories in
the context of like where they are in
the like what else has been written
about and if they're like kind of novel
enough and they haven't been something
that was like just written about in the
news.
Um, so one of the like actual mechanics
of getting a story, um, this is like
pretty tactical. So what if you want to
get your news in you know the the press
basically there's some easy simple
steps. So it's basically getting press
is like you can think of it like a
salesunnel. So you're going to talk to a
lot of people and um not all of them are
going to convert, right? And so you
shouldn't be upset when someone like one
individual person or reporter or
whatever doesn't write your story. Um
the first thing is like you have to
think of a story, right? It's going to
be one of those probably one of those
things that I listed up before. Um the
second step is like you want to get
introduced to a reporter or multiple
reporters who are going to write about
your thing. Um it's like much much
easier just like any sort of business
development to actually get in touch
with them through someone. Um it's like
you know rather than cold emailing them.
Uh the best thing to do I found is like
you want to go to entrepreneurs who were
just written about like your friends who
maybe started a startup and they were
covered on Techrunch. get them to
introduce you to your that reporter who
wrote about them. Um, the reason that's
good is because like from the
entrepreneurs perspective, like the
easiest thing to do in the world is
introduce you to a reporter who already
wrote about them, right? They don't like
need anything else from that reporter.
Um, they're actually doing that person a
favor if your story is interesting. It's
not like you're asking for intros to
investors or potential uh, you know,
people that they would want to hire,
employees. Um, and then from the
reporter's perspective, they're getting
intro to someone who, you know, they
already vetted as interesting. Like
they're they're getting intro from
someone who they know they thought was
interesting enough to write about. And
so like by the transitive property,
you're basically going to they're going
to think you're, you know, probably
interesting. Um, so you get like an
email that's like, oh, you know, from
this guy that introduces you to um, the
reporter and you want to get in contact
with them with enough time that you can
actually get them to like write a story
uh, probably a week in advance or more.
Um, because they're not going to like
drop everything they're doing to just
write about your news. So, a lot of
people, especially first-time
entrepreneurs, will come and say like,
"Oh, Justin, I'm launching this product
tomorrow. Like, can you get me in this,
you know, Techrunch or something?" And
that's like probably not going to happen
unless you already have a relationship.
The best way to do it to the best thing
to do is like give yourself some lead
time. Get that intro in advance and then
um so then you should uh like once once
you've set a date for your news to go
out. You're going to launch your product
like in two weeks, you have this intro.
You set set up some sort of meeting. Um
and you really want to get the the
reporter to like invest time and effort
in you, right? because they don't like
there's like kind of a sunk cost fallacy
at play. Um basically if you the more
time and the they spend with you the
more likely they are to like actually
write something. So you the best thing
to do is get like a face tof face
meeting right lots of people report
bloggers actively don't want to meet you
face to face but like um if not that
then get like a phone call right and get
on the phone with them. The worst thing
to do is like just have an email
exchange right because it's very easy
for them to like forget about it ignore
it. Um, so you want to like actually try
to get in contact with them, set up a
meeting. Okay. So then the next step is
actually pitch them. Um what I usually
do is actually write out all my news
like the story that I would want to see
published like in bullet points and I
like will write out the story like my
ideal story and I'll memorize it like
the entire like set of bullet points and
uh when I have a conversation with them
if it's in person I'll like walk them
through this like I'll have a
conversation that's like structured like
my outline and they'll be like taking
notes right and then they'll go and
transcribe those notes into a story and
so it's like a like what I wrote will
eventually be translated into a actual
story and um you know by preparing you
can actually you know much more easily
control the conversation and not forget
critical things like you know your
co-ound mentioning your co-founder's
name or like what the all the features
in your awesome app are. Um if it's I'm
doing this like on the phone I will like
have these bullet points in front of me
and I will make sure to like walk
through a conversation that includes all
those things.
Um, so you know, you do that. They you
have a pitch. They take they take notes.
They're going to write the story at this
time. And then the next thing is like
follow up like a a couple days or a day
before your actual news goes out. You
want to send them an email that says
like, you know, this is the time we're
launching the app. Like thanks for
meeting. Um, here's like collateral like
meet if if you have like a video or
photos or something you want them to
include screenshots. um like how to
spell your co-founder's names and your
name. Just like include all the
information that I really care about and
I bold it, right? Um and then that's it.
Then hopefully the the day comes, you
press submit on their release to the app
store and at the same time they release
their article on TechCrunch and you are
famous. Okay. So a lot of people ask us
about PR firms. Um, so you know, I think
in the beginning it's kind of like um
everything else you do at a startup, you
want to do it yourself before you hire
someone else to do it. And uh it's
actually pretty easy, especially with
tech press who you know and bloggers who
like constantly need new things to write
about. And you know, you should I
strongly encourage people to like try it
themselves and kind of get started by
learning the process themselves before
they hire anyone. One thing I'll say is
that like firms can can only help you
with like kind of the contacts and the
logistics, but they can't help you know
what's interesting about your company or
very, you know, I've never had anyone
who's been able to tell me what the
stories that I'm producing are. They've
only been able to tell me, you know,
like your
um you know, like here's the here's a
list of reporters that you might want to
contact. Um so you know you really have
to be responsible for thinking about
like what's interesting about your
company and what are you doing you know
what's the road map of interesting
things that you're working on. Um
they're also really expensive you know I
think we were spending between $5,000
and $20,000 a month which is like um at
very you know for various firms. Um
that's a lot for a startup right you
should it's generally not a good use of
money I would say especially in the very
early days.
Um, you know, getting press is is a lot
of work. Uh, so you should really make
sure it's worth it. Um, you know, like I
said, it really getting press doesn't
mean it feels like it's like a vanity
metric, right? It feels like you're
being successful because lots of
successful companies, you know, like
Google and Facebook are covered in the
press all the time, but it doesn't
actually mean you're successful. It
doesn't, you know, actually give you,
you know, mean that you're getting
you're making money, you're getting
users, you're making those users happy.
Um, it's, you know, sometimes it's a
really good strategy for getting your
first 100 or 200 or thousand customers.
Um, but it's really not a scalable user
acquisition strategy. So, it's something
that's really just like a, you know, a
bootstrap. Um, you can't like just get
like infinity articles written about
you. Like eventually people are going to
like get tired of hearing about your
company. And usually that happens pretty
pretty quickly, right? The whole point
about news is it's new. And so, um, it's
pretty pretty pretty hard unless you're
Google to like get covered in the press
like every week, you know, with
something, um, to, you know, if you
decide it's worth it though, like you do
want to have like a regular heartbeat of
news. Um, so that's like something
where, you know, you're planning out
those types of what you're thinking
about what you're doing that matches
those, you know, maybe seven story types
in the future. And like you know when I
was um you know working primarily on
marketing and and PR it would be I would
like make a schedule on like a calendar
if what when we're going to launch
things and like make sure to space them
out but like have them you know appear
regular at regular intervals so that
people like didn't wouldn't forget about
us. Um and we could kind of maximize our
coverage and um you really want to keep
your you know contacts fresh. It's like
really a relationships business. So once
you someone writes about you, you should
keep going back to them for for more um
for writing about you know to write
about you in the future. It's kind of
like um you know when when basically
people you know you're more likely to do
something for someone you've already
like done something for you know you
really like it's if you just you know I
would try to establish good good
relationships with a couple reporters
over time that you can go to to you know
break news and it will come in handy
later if you ever have are in the
position if you're fortunate enough to
be in the position where people are
writing negative things about you. Um
you know having relationships will help
you you know kind of get your side of
the story out. Um, and the last thing is
like, you know, it's kind of uh golden
rule really or maybe more of like a pay
it forward really applies here like you
should help your fellow entrepreneurs
get get coverage because they will help
you get coverage. The best way to get
coverage is um really through these like
warm introductions. And so, uh, you
know, when I'm ever, you know, meeting
with reporters, I always help like
throwing out the names of like other
things that I think would be interesting
stories for them. And usually that comes
back they the the reporters like it
because they it's like helping them find
interesting stories and um you're more
likely to get you know leads back from
those entrepreneurs that you help
out. So if you're interested in learning
more about press here's two resources
that I really liked. Um Jason Concincade
who is former techrunch reporter just
wrote a really really great overview
that covers a lot of the things I just
talked about in more depth and from the
you know blogger side. Um, that was a
really great book. And then, uh, kind of
an evil resource is, uh, this book,
Trust Me, I'm Lying, which was written
by the one of the, um, a former marketer
at American Apparel. And he talks about
like a lot of ways that he pretty like
evily actually manipulated the press.
But I think it's a pretty good look into
like the psychology of like how people,
you know, things spread on the internet.
Um, you know, how stories spread on the
internet. And I it's it's um, might be
valuable to take a look at. Cool. That's
That's basically
it. One question.
Just one. Two. Two qu Okay. Two
questions or zero questions.
So, when is the right time to start
worrying about press altogether?
Uh when is the right time to start
worrying about press altogether? I think
it's a really good way like if you just
uh the first time I launched you know my
first products in our in our first
startup um for a lot of them we got like
zero attention and we didn't really know
how to even get 100 users. I think it's
a really fine way to get a 100 users and
a lot of companies in YC when they first
launch their product will encourage them
to get out and just do one tech story to
like get a few people to to see it. Um
and it's good to get in the practice. I
wouldn't like obsess over getting like
coverage in multiple outlets or anything
like that in the very beginning. All
right. Anything else there? That seems
like the biggest story about Twitch with
the Pokemon thing, right? So, like how
much of a role did you guys actually
play in getting that out press or was
that just like, oh [ __ ] like this blew
up. Awesome. Uh, so Twitch
um, you know, had this thing called
Twitch plays Pokemon where developers
set up like a Pokemon like Game Boy game
that was controlled by chat. So, you
know, millions of people would be typing
in A or B and like the character would
run wander around
aimlessly. And um that was like a huge
news story and um I think that what we
did was, you know, there's a couple
parts. One, we set the stage by having
other news stories that so when someone
from the BBC would Google like Twitch
and be like, "What is this crazy thing
that everyone on Reddit is talking
about?" Um they would like have some
context. Um the other thing is like we
didn't come up with the idea for TW,
right? that was like fortuitous, but we
helped like give it legs by, you know,
making the company available to talk to
the reporters and um suggesting
follow-up stories about like, you know,
there were stories not just about Twitch
plays Pokémon because 100,000 people
were watching this Pokemon game, but
because um you know, it finally like
there were stories when they beat the
game and there were stories when they
launched Twitch plays Pokemon, you know,
Crystal or whatever the next Pokemon
version was and like so we kind of gave
that story like a little bit more legs.
Um, but we didn't, you know, originate
it. It was the community really who who
originated it. All right, I think that's
it. Thank you very much.