Title: Sam Altman : How to Build the Future
Video ID: sYMqVwsewSg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYMqVwsewSg
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2016-09-27T17:45:37Z
Duration: PT21M10S
Views: 528497
Likes: 13573
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, sam altman
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 602

Description:
Access podcast and transcript versions of this interview here: https://www.ycombinator.com/future/sam

Chapters (Powered by https://bit.ly/chapterme-yc) - 
00:00 - Intro
00:14 - How to Pick What's Important to Work On
01:06 - Finding Your Tribe: Advice on selecting who you are working with
02:52 - How to accomplish big things?
03:40 - Work life balance in your 20's
05:26 - How to Make a Decision About When to Give Up
07:29 - What's the source of motivation for people?
08:36 - Have you noticed th

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here
in our backyard where we also live with
our other brother. And Sam wanted to
give us some advice about how to have an
impact on the world. Uh, and since he
couldn't interview himself, here I am.
So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking
the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get
started, I think one of the things that
people talk a lot about is how to get
things done, what you're working on. Um,
but I know you spend a lot of time
thinking about sort of what to work on.
So, could you talk a little bit about
how to pick what's important to work on?
Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for
the intersection of what you're good at,
what you enjoy, and and what where you
can create value for the world. And in
my experience, if you don't find some of
the intersection of those three, it's
hard to really have an impact. I think
most people kind of just fall into what
they work on. They don't give it much
thought. And there is benefit to that.
Uh, sometimes you actually have to just
try stuff to figure out what you like.
But I really do think it is worth
upfront thought about what you're going
to spend most of your waking time doing.
So I think it's really good when people
think about what they're good at, what
they like, and and kind of how they can
create value for the world. And and sort
of in addition to what people are
working on, I know at Y Combinator, you
talk a lot about who people are working
on things with. Uh how do you advise
people to select sort of who they're
working on things with? Um this is this
is really hard. uh finding your tribe,
finding the sort of people that you end
up working with on and off for the rest
of your career is is really hard. Uh I
think I'll tell you some things I've
learned and I will admit that I don't
have a perfect answer to this yet, but I
think one thing is you should be willing
to move. Um for whatever you're doing,
there tend to be pockets of it around
the world where there are similar people
uh that are doing great work in whatever
field you care about and it's really
worth trying to go be be near them.
Um and so you know we get criticized
sometimes at YC for having people move
to the Bay Area but bringing people
together that are interested in this
similar thing of startups I think has
been really valuable for for a lot of
people. I think another thing that I
have learned is that um whenever I've
helped people for for no immediate
benefit uh and with no intention of ever
getting a benefit at all uh time and
again in my career it has really later
benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at
some point often get to a point in your
career where you're you're limited by
how many good people you know and and
how many of those you can work with or
get to do things that uh uh together and
so find just helping a lot of people and
spending a lot of time with a lot of
people uh has benefited me you know
years after I've really helped someone
for no reason I get to invest in their
startup and it goes on to be a huge
success uh or we're able to like work on
open AI together any number of things um
I think just trying to help a lot of
people and out of that seeing who is
really impressive and who gets things
done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of
how to actually get things done. So
you've selected what to work on, who to
work on it with. You think maybe you
found your tribe and then kind of now
what what are what are sort of the best
ways to actually accomplish big things?
Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on
this uh that I've always loved and I've
since added one more element to it, but
the quote is that the way things get
done in the world are through a
combination of focus and personal
connection. And the additional point I
would make uh after having thought about
it for a while is that the third factor
is self-belief. Um it's you really have
to have a deep-seated personal
conviction that this thing you're going
to do that a lot of people say is really
stupid is going to work and going to be
important. But I think those three
things focus personal connections and
self-belief um in my experience are are
how things get done in the world.
So since you were, you know, as long as,
you know, you've you've grown up and
certainly through your 20s and now, um,
you've worked incredibly hard and I know
that a lot of the people around you have
worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the
advice or the way that you think about
your work life balance in your 20s and
what do you recommend to people who want
to do these things and also want to, you
know, experience their 20s? Well, I
don't think I work as hard as a lot of
people. I think I do work pretty hard.
Um, but I I'd say it's really I think
it's compound interest is a good
metaphor here. Um, if you work really
hard at the beginning of your career,
uh, and you get a little bit better at
what you do every day, every week, every
year, and you learn more and you meet
more people and you just get more done,
um, there's a compound effect and it's
far better to put that time in at the
beginning of your career uh than at the
end because if you do it at the
beginning, you get to benefit from it,
uh, you know, for the rest of the time
you work. So, You know, one thing I
always try to do is like meet every
person I had time for, go to every, you
know, go to everything I could. Um, and
just like spend a little bit more time
trying to learn and get better at what I
did what I do. And I think that is
really valuable. Um, the, you know, the
beginning of your career, I I think in
terms of setting the trajectory that the
rest of your career follows is the most
valuable time. And so obviously you
don't want to work all the time because
your 20s are your 20s, but I do think
you want to work harder than most people
think you should. And I think that if
you do that, uh, you tend to benefit
from it later. Life is super unfair.
Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh,
and and so all you can do is kind of
maximize chances there. But I do think
that working hard early in your career
to get the leverage and the compounding
effects is underrated and one of the
most valuable pieces of advice that I
never got. And so going into that idea
of these early years being particularly
valuable um and working very hard on
things. How do you decide when you've
worked on something long enough and it's
time to call it quits or when you've
worked on it for four years and you're
just about to have that breakthrough? Um
h how do you make that distinction?
Yeah, this this is really hard. Um,
knowing when to quit and knowing when to
give up on something
is there's no perfect answer to that. U,
but it's really challenging to even get
that approximately correct. I think most
people give up on things way too early.
So, the mistake that most people make is
they try something, it does not
immediately work. You see this
particularly in young entrepreneurs. It
does not immediately work. After seven
weeks, they say, you know what, I tried
this thing. it's just not meant to be
and I have too many other projects and
so they immediately give up and you kind
of, you know, the satirical version of
this is people that are 23 and have
started 14 startups um because they give
up on everyone before it could ever
possibly be successful. These things are
really hard. Um they take a very long
time. There are a lot of critics. There
are a lot of people who say this thing
sucks. It's going to fail. It's really
stupid. And then also there's like what
at YC we call the trough of sorrow where
no one even bothers to say it sucks
because no one cares at all. Um and that
is at least is demotivating. Uh most of
the founders that I have spent a lot of
time with that have gone on to be super
successful spent a very long time on
their idea uh when a lot of other people
would have given up. And either people
said it sucks or people said nothing at
all. And a framework that I have for
when to give up and when to keep working
is it should be an internal not an
external decision. um if people aren't
using it or if people are saying it's
bad, that alone is not a reason to give
up. You want to pay some attention to
that. They might be right. Um but I
think the best entrepreneurs I know uh
they make an internal decision about
when to give up or when to keep working
on something. Uh it's basically when you
have run out of ideas and something is
not working, then it's a good time to
stop.
And so into this idea that you need a
long time to do anything important,
what's the source of motivation for
people? Like what should people be
looking to find to be inspired or to
keep going on these ideas for a long
period of time?
Um I yeah I think if you don't actually
believe what you're doing is really
important and if you don't derive
satisfaction from what you're doing then
you will not be able to sustain all of
the bad things that happen and the
incredibly long period of time that the
bad things happen over. And so the the
only motivation that I have seen work
for people uh over a long period of time
is enjoyment in what they're doing and
an intense belief that it matters and
ideally liking the people that they go
to work with every day. Um but the I
think the reasons that a lot of people
and by the way it's totally cool when
people start off saying well I want to
make money or I want to be famous. I
think a lot of people start that way and
they don't like to admit it. But pretty
quickly uh or at least in the first few
years I think a lot of people find a
deeper mission for why they do what they
do and that that drives them then for
the rest of the time they work. Have you
noticed a change in what motivates you
over the last say 10 or 12 years?
Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this
point I am sort of only interested in
things that I find sort of interesting
and important. And early on, like a lot
of other people, I think I was like,
well, I want to make money. I want to,
you know, like be in the press or
whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say
that doesn't motivate me at all, but
it's honestly not a big factor at this
point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like
there's a set of things that I think
are important. uh and I want to work on
this. I I think another point about
motivation that is that people don't
talk about enough um is related to
burnout. So I was told and I thought for
a long time that you get burned out from
working too
hard. And at least in my own experience,
what I found is that burnout actually
comes from um failing and things not
working. Momentum is really energizing.
The lack of momentum is super draining.
And I find that I have infinite energy
to work on things that I find
interesting and that are working and
almost none to work on things that I
either don't find interesting or aren't
working. And so I think you see a lot of
founders try something and fail and
assume that they just can't work hard
enough or don't have enough energy or
passion or whatever. And that's actually
not true. Uh it's just that that thing
didn't work. And what you should do is
shut that company down, go on vacation,
and try again. And many people then find
that oh actually when I'm doing this
thing that I like and that is working. I
have a huge amount of energy and I can
get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when
you look at really successful people and
say how do they get all those things
done it's they have the benefit of
momentum and momentum is energizing and
the lack of momentum is really not
energizing.
Working on a lot of these problems that
you know kind of inspire this type of
motivation are sort of inherently
riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this
is something that we've talked about a
lot about sort of the concept of taking
risk in a career being a repeated game,
but how do you how do you uh think about
the idea of taking risks in your career
and how should people think about it
maybe differently than they currently
do? Well, yeah, I think people have
terrible risk calculus in general. Um,
even people who try to be really good
about this are bad at it. Um the answer
I think is almost always uh a you're
wrong about what is risky and what is
not risky and b uh most people don't
take enough risk especially early in
your career being young and unknown and
poor. Um that is actually a great gift
in terms of the amount of risk you can
take. Um and I think people don't
capitalize on that enough. Uh I think
what risk actually looks like is not
doing something that you will then spend
the rest of your life uh regretting.
There's a quote, you know, people regret
way more the things they didn't do than
things that they did do. So if you
really believe in something, there's an
idea that you're super passionate about.
Um you know, and you take a calculated
risk to start a company realizing you
may forgo a couple of years of steady
income at another job um and whatever
else. uh and you know maybe people call
you a failure or whatever um that's a
great risk to take and if you don't take
that risk I think you have a very high
chance that you end up regretting that.
Um I think the wrong kind of risk to
take is where people don't actually do
things or don't commit to something
because they don't want to fail and they
overrate the risk of failure and the
reputation damage or embarrassment or
whatever. Um I think one really
important thing to strive for uh in in
your career is to be a doer not a
talker. And the reason that people don't
do stuff, one is it's hard and two is
it's risky. And so you have these people
that uh you know want to dabble in a
bunch of different projects but never be
all in on one. Uh and I think it's this
combination of work and risk and it's
you know I think that's really bad. I
think history belongs to the doers and I
think you should take a risk. Actually
do something. Don't just sit around and
talk and organize and bring together
groups and go to thought leadership
conferences and whatever it is these
people spend their time on other than
actually building something. Um and just
take the risk of committing to what you
you have conviction on. Yeah. And I
think people also seem to have sort of
the fear of being told no a lot and not
asking for what they want. I'm sure
that's something that you've encountered
with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of
the other things I learned, um, that I
wish I had gotten advice on early in my
career, uh, is ask for what you want.
Um, you will get told no a lot, but
sometimes it will work. And, and I think
you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot
themselves in the foot because they
don't ask that person to quit their job
and come join them. They don't ask this
big company to do a deal with them. Um,
and they're just not aggressive enough.
Uh, and I think
you being willing to ask what you want
and and be somewhat aggressive are
really important characteristics of
being an entrepreneur. People don't want
to fail. Um, they don't want to be told
no. Uh, they don't want to end up in
some crisis. Um, another thing that I
learned, and I I won't even say I wish
someone told me this one because I don't
think it's a lesson anyone can teach
you. You have to just live through it,
is that each crisis gets less scary than
the one before it. um you're running a
company now. I'm sure you've I hope
you've noticed this by now. Um you there
are a lot of things that really go wrong
and they feel like company killing
events and they feel like there's no way
you're going to survive. Um because the
crises are really bad. And the thing you
learn is that you generally do survive
these um and and that the world doesn't
usually end. And even if in the moment
something happens, you have no idea how
you're going to get around it.
um you eventually figure out a way and
and because of that uh you know on the
19th major crisis you're like well I
survived the first 18 I'll probably get
through this one and you kind of just do
definitely that rings true um so uh
switching into a bit topic of uh sort of
money and sort of the long-term view of
it and how people can think about it
most clearly. Um I'm actually going to
start with a quick story uh that I think
illustrates a bit of sort of your views.
Um, this is from when we were very young
and our grandma gave us each some stock.
Oh, this is a good story. In a company.
All right, you can tell this one. Okay.
Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a
company that she thought we would like.
Um, and so as you like to point out, I
was heavier as a child and one of the
things I liked was Applebee's and you
were hacking away on computers and one
of the things you liked was Apple. And
so we each got an equal amount of Apple
and Applebee's. This is like 20 years
ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I
think neither of us has sold it. In
fact, you nicely brought me my
Applebee's stock back from St. Louis
recently. um your stock certificates so
long ago it was still paper certificates
and I think inflation adjusted I've
probably lost half my value there
whereas I think your Apple has gone up
something like I don't even want to
think about it uh hundreds hundreds of
yeah it's been a lot um how do you think
about sort of the long-term willingness
uh to hold on to things what are the
advantages somebody has early in their
career um how should people think about
money when they're young yeah you know I
still have those uh Apple shares marked
in my brokerage account as grandma's
birthday apple shares if I ever sold one
no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I
should benchmark them against
Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of
the few arbitrage opportunities left in
the market is time. I think we have
gotten really good at high frequency
trading. Um, we have gotten really good
at the price of things and we've gotten
worse at the long-term value.
And I I don't think you can go beat the
market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one
way I do is is by making a long-term
commitment to something. I think
that I my new belief on how long I
should hold stock in the best companies
I invest in is forever. Um, and I think,
you know, in a world where people are
increasingly focused on the tick and the
quarterly earning cycle, you should try
and go in the other direction. And this
is a great way to generate value and
wealth. Uh and and so I think that when
you're thinking about a startup, uh it's
really worthwhile to think about
something you're willing to make a very
long-term commitment to because that is
where the current void in the market is.
Um I I
think you know you get paid as a founder
for the wealth you create for other
people. So there's this view of the
world that um business is all about like
trying to steal money and sometimes
that's true but but the the best
companies just create massive amounts of
value for the world and then they
capture some of that for themselves but
they capture far less than they create
and they do it over a very long period
of time. So if you're going to be one of
those companies um I think you want to
make a super long-term commitment to
yourself and others that are going to
work on it with you that this is going
to take a long time. Um, but it is worth
waiting because you will make far more
money over the long horizon um by doing
this company really well than a bunch of
short-term things along the way. So, how
much do you think people should have
strong opinions about things versus
putting something into the world,
iterating and sort of finding out
whatever works and going with that? I
think you want a combination of those
two things. You want want to have a
strong opinion and then be flexible
about the details. So the thing I don't
think works that often are the startups
on their 11th pivot that are totally
unrelated. Um but I put a big difference
between refinement and pivoting. So when
you start with a strong belief um you
know we should have a social graph and
an online directory um that is Facebook
has stayed pretty similar to that
although the product itself has changed
a lot along the way and I think that's
really good that is a strong idea um
with flexibility in the implementation
and I think that's much better than the
we're just going to keep trying random
ideas because we want to have a startup.
Um I I think strong strong opinions
about the future are really important
and I think uh one of the things that I
have noticed among the most interesting
the most successful people that I spend
time with is that they have strong
opinions strongly held about the future.
They are willing to be convinced with
new data that they are wrong but the bar
for that is fairly high. And this idea
that the future is fundamentally
unknowable. I I've never liked actually
I I remember pretty clearly this time
where I was sort of like spouting advice
someone else had given me in high school
or college about how you in you know you
need to diversify in investing because
the world is unknown, unknowable and so
all you can do is have the most balanced
possible portfolio. And I remember that
I was saying that out loud. Someone else
had said it to me probably grandma. Uh
and and I realized that I really didn't
agree with that at all. Um because I had
strong opinions and then I knew that
there were some companies whose stock
I'd rather own than others. And I knew
that I would rather uh like own stock
than own bonds. Um because I thought
technology was going to be worth a lot
more. I have different ideas today about
the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think
it's good. It's not only okay, it's good
to have strong ideas about the future.
And it is okay to not be super
diversified in your investment portfolio
or your career or your life. And then
the final question is if you could leave
young people who want to have a big
impact with one or two pieces of advice,
what would you tell them? Well, I I
don't want to give people a specific
field to go work on. Um because I think
the whole idea is that people need to
figure out themselves what they believe
in and what they think and what they
believe is high impact to work on for
the future. Um so what I will say
instead is it is really important to
actually think hard about where you
think you can make the biggest
contribution that you're good at and the
world needs and that you enjoy and uh
then go meet people to work with. go
learn as much about that field as you
can and then have the the courage of
your convictions to actually take a risk
and focus on it and and go do something
there. Um, and that it's okay if you
fail and if you do fail, you'll not be
in much different of a place than you
are today and you can go try the next
thing. But it it's I think really
important to be willing to go take a
risk and make some amount of sacrifice
to be able to try to impact the world in
in some way that that you really care
about.
And I think the sooner you get to work
on that, the better you'll you'll be.
Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks
very much.