Title: How Amplitude Went From Skeptics to “All In” on AI
Video ID: t8co94HS6tY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8co94HS6tY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-12-03T15:01:50Z
Duration: PT44M22S
Views: 47158
Likes: 775
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1355

Description:
Spenser Skates has spent more than a decade building Amplitude from a YC startup into a public company, and in that time, he's had to reinvent himself just as much as the product.

Joining the Lightcone pod, he talks through the shift from founder to large-company CEO, the skepticism his team initially had toward AI, and the moment they realized the next wave of analytics would require a full reset. He walks through the hard reorgs, the bottom-up experiments, and the mindset changes that let Amp

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

there is a point that you get to a year
maybe two years in where from a rational
standpoint you probably should quit but
for whatever reason um those successful
ones don't and so that is the number one
filtering criteria the best advice I can
have is be clear in your own head about
what you're trying to learn and then you
know be open to where it comes from and
that's what I think people [ __ ] that up
a lot they don't get really crystal
clear on why they're trying to build a
startup or what they need to do to be
successful there is going to be a
reinvention of analytics uh in the next
few years and you know we we want to be
the ones to go lead
Welcome back to another episode of the
light cone. Today we're really excited
to be joined by Spencer Skates, CEO and
co-founder of Amplitude. So Amplitude
went through YC in winter 2012.
Amplitude is one of the world's leading
analytics platforms and they're used by
some of the biggest companies in the
world like Curser, Door Dash, and
Walmart. Thanks for joining us, Spencer.
>> Absolutely. Good to see you here, Harge.
So, I was really excited to have you
here because both of us made people on
the internet angry recently,
specifically on X or Twitter. Um, I made
them angry because I said that a lot of
the reason incumbent tech companies
can't build AI products is that the
engineers are kind of grumpy and don't
believe in AI and its capabilities. So,
they don't want to build the product.
People got mad at you for that.
>> Yeah, people got really mad. Turns out
that like there are actually a lot of
grumpy engineers that don't believe in
AI. So I was curious to hear for you as
like a a company that started well
before the AI wave and is now um trying
to move in is moving into AI and
building more AI products. How has that
change been for you and what have been
some of the challenges you faced? It is
hard um as a larger company to reorient
and rebuild your company to use AI well.
Uh and this is I think to your point the
huge advantage that a lot of earlier
companies that can build from the ground
up in this way. I mean, I I'll just tell
you the the Amplitude story. So, we we
were frankly skeptics on AI for a while,
too. So, started to become relevant in
2022. Uh 2023,
um there's discussion, but we we didn't
really do that much. And it wasn't
until, uh late in 2024 that we're like,
okay, we need to get serious because I
think this is has the potential to
reshape analytics and what we're doing.
Um I I think you know just to defend the
skeptics for a second I think I I
remember being in a board meeting once
you had like you know all these like
board investor finance people and you
had all these sales people like hey guys
shouldn't you look at this AI thing like
isn't that getting hot shouldn't you
guys do it and it's like
>> what's your AI strategy?
>> Yeah exactly exactly yeah actually that
literally was a question like from one
of our execs to me is like we got to get
our AI strategy. What's our AI strategy
Spencer? And I'm like, this is the wrong
way to think about what it is we're
doing. It's like, if you guys think it
is, you guys think you can figure it
out, go do it. And I remember one of my
co-founders, Jeffrey, um, actually was
the most frustrated because I think he
saw a lot of grifting happening in AI
being like, oh, it's going to replace
all these jobs and like, you know, it's
going to do all these things and we're
not going to, you know, it's going to
create this world of abundance and it's
it's just going to totally reshape how
we're building products and shipping
them and how our customers are using
them. But the uh the reality was if if
you use any of these models at this
point, it's like it was not it was not
clear at all. I I think if you look at
the capabilities of any of these models,
it's like they're very very jagged. So
there's some things they're exceptional
about. Uh and there's some things that
they're just absolutely terrible about.
I think the frustrating part is to be
told by someone who has no clue about,
you know, what what stuff falls in what
buckets like, "Oh yeah, you should do
more of this AI thing." Um it was very
very it was that that that was that was
frustrating. And so I think there was uh
there's frankly skepticism on my part.
There's there's skepticism on the part
of of my co-founders um and and some of
the broader team with an amplitude about
what was actually going to be possible
with it. Um
>> but something changed.
>> Yes. Well, I think you you saw the
transformative effect that AI had on
software engineering. Like no question
if you were using I mean started by
cursor but then you know all these other
amazing tools cla
you know tons and tons of others it was
it was very clear that you would be a
lot more productive using these things.
Um, and so that was kind of the first of
us saying, "Okay, there's something
there there and let's go after this."
Um, so we really uh started on this path
in earnest in around October of uh 2024.
And kind of two things happened then.
One, I hired a new engineering leader,
this guy Wade Chambers, who's a Silicon
Valley legend. The other is uh we
acquired this company, Command AI, also
a YC company. Uh in both their cases,
they were kind of the change agents that
Amplitude needed. So Wade uh had been
working on AI uh to in his previous
company and had known a bunch of uh
people who were on the bleeding edge of
leveraging the capabilities of models.
They had been building a product where
they were trying to they're they're
doing a bunch of different things, but
they were trying to uh smartly trigger
guides uh to end users to based on if
they were confused. Uh and they, you
know, created this this chat bot that uh
uh very much like an intercom Finn that
would uh yeah interact with users and
you know, help them answer questions and
and stuff like that. And um they had
been you know on on leveraging a bunch
of model capabilities. That was kind of
the the first point that we started to
to get serious about it. And then since
then, it has been a
very I'd like to think we're kind of
coming up. I mean, we just launched uh a
whole bunch of AI products in the last
few weeks. Uh we did AI feedback, we did
AI visibility, we did uh our MCP server,
and then we're going to go much much
bigger uh in December, January, and
February. um where we are going to be
coming out with uh what we call the
cursor for analytics which I'm
incredibly excited about and I think
will dramatically change how people uh
use and leverage analytics but it it's
it's taken um to transform you know
amplitude as an organization I like to
think we're still small we're about 800
people product engineering and design uh
that organization is about 200 people so
you know it's like you can know most
people um in it and and change pretty
quickly it's still ch taken us a full
year uh to get the team uh kind of fully
on board and ramped and like believing
and and seeing and building.
>> Chat GBT launches, AI starts taking off.
Um and it sounds like your investors and
board members and maybe people who
aren't in the day-to-day are sort of
like, hey, what are you doing with this
AI thing? What about
>> they read about it in Techrunch or
something? Yes. Exactly. Exactly.
>> What about internally? Like what was the
vibe internally at Amplitude on the
team? Like was there anyone internally
asking hey like should we be building AI
products or doing something with AI?
There were a few uh people that were
kind of testing out ideas but I I think
we were so focused on our regular motion
like we were coming out with a lot of
other products outside of analytics. We
were doing you know we launched
experimentation we were building session
replay internally we're building this
thing uh activation which targets your
users based on their behavior. And so
there there was a lot to do
that was just kind of right in front of
us. Um that was clear like okay hey we
can be much more competitive with uh you
know and and there's this revenue that's
just sitting here if we go build these
things. You know, there were a few folks
that were messing around with it and
there there were some people that had
used cursor and other things, but the
the organization as a whole did not have
it's not like it was conscious and aware
of this change, this this this massive
change that was about to happen. I give
a lot of credit to Wade and I give a lot
of credit to the command team of being
the tip of the spear in terms of showing
people what is possible um and then
getting the organization to to embrace
by uh early 2025.
I was convinced and I was like all right
we have to be very aggressive on this.
Um so the first order is to train the
organization of what the capabilities of
AI are specifically engineering.
>> What was like the light bulb moment for
you when did you flick into this needs
to be my priority?
>> It's hard to say that there was there
was one moment um we've always had this
vision at Amplitude of a self-improving
product where you have a product that
dynamically responds to your user
feedback. So, it knows what features you
like. It knows when you're getting
frustrated and stuck. Um, it knows how
to change things based on your input as
a user. Um, and I had always thought
this vision was like, you know, 10 years
out if if if you know, if if even that
close. And one of the things that was
becoming clear, it was actually a lot
closer uh that that moment was actually
probably a lot closer than we had
realized uh because of what we saw
happening on uh the coding side with AI.
I said, "Okay, look, we, you know,
whether or not a self-improving product
is going to be possible, it's clear at
least a step towards it. We're going to
have to go do it." So, and the way to do
this is we're going to have to train the
the organization on this. I started
working with, uh, James, uh, the founder
CEO of Command, as well as Wade, um, our
engineering leader, to
figure out how do we train the
organization on AI? and we we came up
with an AI week and unfortunately for a
bunch of reasons we weren't able to
actually do that until June but that was
a that was a key uh pivot point what we
did was we got a bunch of the existing
leaders in the organization so you know
our VPs of product our engineering
managers to use this technology and to
see what was possible about it and then
during that AI week what we do is we
train the team we had our like our one
of our product leaders you know uh vibe
mode like a dark mode for amplitude in
front of the entire organization which
was actually very scary but actually it
it happened you know they ran into a bug
but they happen to sort it out. Um it
was actually kind of a cool moment
because the entire uh engineering
product and design organization saw what
was it's like wow okay you know all of
the leaders within amplitude are saying
this is the thing and they're showing
how they're doing it and you know I
better get with this as well and then
the rest of the week you know so we did
training for about two days um and then
the rest of week was just you know like
a hackathon work on stuff you're already
doing except you know do it faster and
better uh by you know getting set up
with cursor as well as a bunch of these
other pieces of tooling. So step one is
B was actually not like here's what we
need to build at amplitude with AI. Step
one is just get the existing team using
the tools and and bought in and
believing in them. This is the core
difference between building product and
SAS and building product with AI. In SAS
SAS I mean it's the best business model
and the best product delivery system of
all time. You go to your customers, you
ask them what they want and what they're
going to pay for. You prioritize that
list and you start building it. you get
them to those customers and then you
just do the whole thing over and over
again. That's the delivery loop that
Amplitude has mastered over the last
decade. And you know, that's that's our
core competitive advantage, you know, as
as an analytics company is we're better
at that than uh anyone else. The key is
you can go to your customers, they can
tell you what they want. Um with the
capabilities of AI because they're so
jagged, you it's a technology first
understanding of what is possible. And
so if you go to your customers and tell
them and ask them what they want, like
they're not even going to be able to
describe what's possible.
>> Give me a faster horse.
>> Yeah. Give give me a faster horse, you
know, or or it'll be asking for
something that's not quite possible or
possible in the wrong way or like, hey,
you know, I want something that ships
insights to me and, you know, does it in
this particular way and you'll get all
sorts of different visions of it. Um,
and what's much more important is you
you have to be familiar with the
capabilities of the models and then how
those can map back into what your
product does. The thing that I just find
really surprising about this is usually
the way it works with new technologies
is like the engineers are the early
adopters and they are usually like
bugging their like company. I really
want to use like this tool. I don't like
and it's like the companies are
resisting saying it's not like tested
yet. It's not safe. But like it seems to
be a more common pattern with AI that
it's like going the other way. It's tops
down.
>> Yeah. Like why do you think that's
happening?
>> Um I I mean it's going to sound
extraordinarily reductive, but I I think
I think Sam Alman is the best
salesperson of of this generation by no
bar none. like I think he has done an
exceptional job stating a very ambitious
vision getting a lot of people rally
behind it at OpenAI um showing what's
possible and convincing you know the
entire world of the impact that this
technology is going to have and so you
have these you know exe investors
already bought in executives are bought
in you know world leaders are bought in
like you know as a society we you know
the the the people in power have said
hey this technology matters and the
reality is the capabilities are still
trying to catch up and it's not clear if
they'll catch up to those aspirations.
Um and so you have to your point Har the
opposite disconnect happening where you
know yeah you have a lot of desire for
this thing to happen but you know it's
not clear if the capabilities are are
there yet and so this is why you know
you had a lot of frustration you know in
amplitude as a case study you have a lot
of frustration from engineers being like
man I see just tremendous what they feel
is grifting in AI where it's a lot of
talkers not many doers you know it's
it's not till the last year that you
know okay hey we think the capabilities
are here for it to transform the uh the
business that that we're in in
analytics.
>> One thing that comes to mind is this
mode of running the company more like
founder mode is even more present and
there's a story of the transformation
with case techs where just founder le to
do that transformation. Sounds like this
is what's going on with amplitude 2 is
coming from from you.
>> Absolutely. So I've had to learn over
the last 10 years how to be go from
being a founder to being a large company
executive. there is no way to understand
what is possible than being using the
technology and being on the front lines
of it. And so, you know, that's why it's
like, yeah, you train the entire
organization and it's a much more
bottoms up thing on what is possible.
And so, out of that AI week came
basically all the AI stuff that we're
working on now. So, uh, our MCP server,
which we didn't even plan for, like that
was actually one of our engineers, uh,
Brian Giori, who was incredibly excited.
you had uh one of our engineers, this
this guy named Leo Jen who built AI
visibility and he just wanted to he was
actually going to leave Amplitude to
start a company and we're like look just
come here stay here learn how to do this
while getting paid and we'll we'll we'll
teach and coach you and then you know
we'll fund when you whenever you do go
something and I didn't even want him to
do AI visibility but he was like oh I
think that there's a huge opportunity
here uh to like build something for free
and give it away and you know now that's
now like you know there it's been this
explosion like we have that la product
launch doubled uh new signups to
Amplitude which is wild you know like
every week it's like we're getting twice
as many uh signups to our free plan as
we did uh from before our AI visibility
launch um all the way to what we're
going to be launching in January which
is we're going to launch um a what we're
going to call Ask AI which is a global
chat interface very much like cursor
where you will be able to chat uh with
uh yeah chat with AI and ask it to pull
pull certain charts for you or do
analysis or figure out why something has
happened to you for uh within uh uh
within you know your data uh and pull
that back out to you to our agents to
like so many different things have come
out of this uh from but it's it's all
been very bottoms up and then it's about
you know for me and for Wade um to to
sculpt okay how do we set these up in
the organization for success
>> so not many uh large companies like
yourself have been able to do this
transformation a lot of them are
stuck and it's been probably very
painful to overcome. What are things
that you had to give up to get to where
you are right now?
>> I mean, we've done two reorganizations
in uh the the engineering product and
design organization since the since the
start of this year. Um, and so, you
know, there were leaders and executives
and and different people who were very
much kind of in the SAS modality, but
were not on the bleeding edge of AI that
just unfortunately were not quite the
right fit for what we were trying to
build in the future. And so, ended up
having to move folks out of the
business. I mean, doing that level of
reorganization, you know, twice in a
year is very disruptive. We've also
acquired uh other companies. So, uh, we
brought in uh the Craftful team and Jana
who's been phenomenal. We brought in uh
uh Eric uh and Frank uh from Anari. Uh
we brought in also a YC company. We
brought out Enzo and Fuio from June also
I think YC YC company. Yeah. So so we we
brought in all these great YC founders.
Um uh and then kind of melded them with
a lot of uh longtime ampliters. Um and
that combination has been very very
special. What are like the the specific
differences? So for people who are
really successful I I think especially
engineers like who are successful in
sort of preAI SAS world kind of grew up
in that environment and then you compare
like what are sort of the things that
they're I know lacking is the right word
but what are the things that they can't
see or they're not as naturally adept at
as people who came up in sort of postAI
world and are like AI native engineers
and believe in it deeply.
>> To say the more uh uncomfortable thing
like is it an age gap? is an age gap.
It's not an age thing per se. It's a
mentality thing. Like in the SAS world,
you can take you can do that loop I
talked about earlier. Talk to customers,
ask them what they want, prioritize that
list, build it, deliver it, do it again.
Like you you you kind of I don't know,
it feels very cliche to say, but you you
want to take kind of the
state-of-the-art in whatever field
you're building for and then start to
say, okay, if I were to redo this in an
AI native way, why? On the flip side, I
think what a lot of these AI native
teams are really missing is they haven't
learned the product and the problem and
why things are solved the way they're
solved. And so like they try to create
these new interfaces from scratch
without drawing on the previous, you
know, expertise that's happened over the
last decade on whatever problem that
they're solving. And so, you know, if
you try to build an analytics interface
from the ground up where you're just uh
say, you know, starting with questions
and you're not seeing your data, it's
actually that's actually has its own set
of challenges. And so I I think um you
know what I'll say with the Amplitude
team is like there's some incredible
engineers there. I think the ones that
have adapted the best have always been
very in tune with okay the code is not
an end in itself. It just uh like
shipping it. That's just a side effect
of solving whatever problem for the
customer and then hey now I need to get
up to speed with this new technology and
if I can marry those two things then I'm
going to create something amazing. I
guess one of the weird things I've
noticed in my own behavior is um we have
an internal agent infra at YC and it has
access to all our you know databases and
everything like that and then Jared
recently told me I'm like sort of a
super user for it and then what I
realize is uh I don't basically it
actually fails most of the time still
but I just like try and ask it in a
different way. I tried, you know, if it
failed with Gemini 3, then I'll try it
with, you know, Claude, I'll try it with
GP 5.1, like I'll change the reasoning
levels like, and then eventually I
figure it out and it's like, and it
works. So whereas like in B2B SAS andor
building, you know, sort of standard web
2.0 software, it's like, man, if it
broke even once, like this thing is a
piece of crap and I'll never use it
again. And it's like a weird Yeah. You
have to like rewire your brain to be
it's like working with a child right
now.
>> Th This is why I think a lot of the hype
in that AI killing SAS is way overblown
because
particularly for a lot of business
workflows like very high guarantees on
performance are fundamental to it. You
know, if you put a record into your CRM,
that stuff better be there. you know,
you don't want it, oh well, it put this
in with 80% probability. It's like you
want it to be there. And SAS does a
great job of that. It actually took a
set of existing workflows that were
handled on prem or by paper and just
moved them to the cloud. And so it
wasn't really like it wasn't any
workflow transformation. And this is
where I think um Andre Karpathy's point
is totally right where a lot of these
businesses are trying to overshoot the
mark and just say, "Okay, well, hey,
we'll just have this agent handle this
workflow end to end." actually the
editing and redoing it like you like you
talk about Gary is actually incredibly
important. And so how do you create a
product that allows you to do that
really well I think is the key challenge
that a lot of uh AI B2B companies are
figuring out. Speaking of things that
you had to give up in order to do this
what happened to the existing Amplitude
roadmap like you had all these other
things that you were working on before
the company got AI forever. Did you
throw out the whole road map only like
half of it? How are you thinking about
like allocating resources between these
new AI bets and the like existing stuff
that makes the money? It's not like
there's there's totally separate
products. Like the goal of for example
uh our uh what we're calling Ask AI
which is the chat interface in in
Amplitude is to make it easier to use
the existing product. Um and so you know
as we've looked at next year there are
four big priorities we have. One is
rebuild Amplitude to be AI native. Uh
the second is make it much easier to
use. The third is make sure our other
products outside of analytics have
parity with the competition. And then
the fourth is uh serve marketers really
well so that we can take on a bunch of
the legacy martekch guys. There's still
like basics that we're doing or or
foundational things we're doing on our
session replay product on our
experimentation products on our guides
and surveys product. Um like you know
for example one big thing that we're
going to be coming out with in session
replay in the next few months is zoning
which is this way where you can look at
a web page and then see the analytics
overlaid on top of it which is super
cool functionality. And so that we're
still doing. Uh in the same way, I think
what getting the team to embrace uh AI
from the uh uh from the ground up has
happened has allowed us to do is one,
you know, they're a lot faster and more
productive, so they're shipping a lot
more, which is absolutely amazing. Uh
and then two, uh they are looking at
these problems with this lens. Um and so
the the the big change we did
organizationally is uh we had a lot of
these these AI projects as kind of side
projects for a bunch of people and we
said okay let's have a dedicated team
that kind of goes after them but the
existing team is still going to do uh
you know work on making the amplitude
product great and that work is is is
just as important because I I I think
the timeline for change in the business
world is the cycles are just much much
much longer
>> and how do you allocate people between
the teams working on the new AI stuff
and the more traditional SAS stuff. Did
they self- select into different groups?
Is like is there like a like a like a
challenging cultural divide there that
you have to navigate?
>> No, you know, I think by doing the AI we
can make it clear. We had this whole uh
metaphor we talked about burning the
boats like we're all in on this. Um and
there were some people that got even
more into it and they very naturally
self- selected uh into a bunch of uh a
bunch of this work like we and it's it's
crazy. It's like it's not just hey
engineers, it's like designers too. Our
very best designer at Amplitude, uh this
guy named Will Newton, we actually had
him spread among way too many projects
and he was like, "No, I got to focus in
like let's like say no to some of these
for for a little bit so I can go really
deep on this chat interface um at uh you
know and and make sure that when we
launch this thing in early next year,
it's it's going to be awesome." Um, so
yeah, people will naturally kind of
self- select in um or out and um you
know it's it's a 200 person or so, so
you get a you get a whole spectrum of
this.
>> Can we talk about the thing that you
said that made people angry on the
internet?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Which one?
>> I think Yeah.
I think it was it was the AI visibility
tweet, right? I think like generally I
think you were making the point that um
the a lot of these startups are sort of
like features not companies. Um, and
obviously like at YCU, we're going to
take the other side of it and we'd argue
that
>> you guys have a have a visibility
company. It feels like every batch,
right?
>> Yeah, it's it's a it's become a a
popular idea. That is true.
>> We find founders, not ideas.
>> I love it.
>> Um, but I AI visibility aside, I guess
you've gone through the whole journey
like you you're in the batch, you
started a company, now you're running a
public company, you know. I mean, I
think we would argue the side of just I
the start the advantage that startups
have in general is just like they they
don't have an existing customer base.
They don't have revenue. they can like
their customers are going to be more
forgiving if the thing doesn't work yet
and these have seem like advantages for
like new startups attacking incumbent
companies with like an AI product. Um
but from your perspective what are what
are like what are the advantages that
like incumbent companies have over the
how do you think about it? I think the
real business has to be downstream of AI
visibility. Uh it's a valuable there's
value in it like you know just like
there's value in in the SEO world but
it's so easy to do you know we we did it
you know as as I mentioned in in in a
it's probably more like a few months and
a few weeks but we we did it very
quickly um and gave it away for free and
it's been this incredible lead
generation for us um and so the
commoditization is going to happen real
real fast I mean you talk about like you
know people talk about uh hey SAS going
away because of AI I think that's a
great example of it. Um, and so in
contrast, if you look at I think
businesses that have done very well
here. So like there is a business I
think that is very viable here, which is
what Aerops is doing where they're yes,
they have some visibility aspects, uh,
but they have uh, a whole content
generation business to help you create
blog posts and other material um, on
that, you know, and and that's the
that's their real business. And so I
think all of these visibility businesses
like you can you can get it for free
from us, you can get it, you know,
you're going to be able to get it free
from a lot of other places and you're
going to have to construct a real
business kind of downstream. And to
maybe to give the flip side of it, like
um you know, I I think innovation in the
space is great. You know, it's already
moved a lot in the last few months. One
of the advantages we have is because we
have an existing revenue base of
hundreds of millions, we can give away
this for free, you know, and just uh and
that's that's great because, you know,
now a lot more people can get visibility
without having to, you know, go through
all the hoops of of paying a company and
get like, you know, tons of uh tons and
tons of value out of it. You have like
you you were Spencer the founder like
right out of college starting company,
now you're like public company CEO,
let's say. And so you have all this
knowledge from seeing like what things
look like at scale. Um let's say you
went out and started another company
again and you were looking at like
markets to go into and you were thinking
about like where are where are markets
where you would imagine like oh like
this incumbent is actually really good
and like we should just stay away and AI
is not going to give us an advantage and
and which are ones where you'd be like
oh yeah like actually no that's totally
vulnerable and like they're not going to
like we could really compete with them.
I I mean honestly I I joke about this
but anything Google's trying to do I
think that
Google is the worst B2B company of all
time and there's an incredible
opportunity to compete with them. So you
know I'd look at email I'd look at a lot
of the workspace stuff. I think what the
notion guys for example are doing as a
competitor to Google Docs is is very
exciting. Institutionally Google's
Google's way too slow and way too
conservative um that to be able to do
this. And so it's only when other
companies start to innovate that they
get their stuff together. You know, same
on this coding thing, you know, they
they've proven it can work from a
technology standpoint, but bringing it
to market, selling it to customers, uh
making it work from a product
standpoint, I think is very ripe for
disruption, honestly. So, we've seen it
in coding, we're starting to see in
support. We're seeing, you know, we
think there's a massive opportunity in
analytics that that we're uniquely
positioned for. Um I think it, you know,
there's going to be a cursor moment in
analytics in the next two years. No
question in my mind where people are
going to use analytics with AI and
you're going to be like, why did we ever
do it the old way? And I can't even
imagine going back. I think there's a
lot of very generalized agent builders
and I think picking a particular problem
and a particular buyer um is going to be
a much more successful way of building a
business. You know, yeah, there's a
general, you know, there's probably
multiple generalized agent builders
every YC batch now, too. Um and so um
having a a strong point of view for a
particular buyer that cares about some
things like one of the ones um I saw
recently was like I I think you know
there's all these studies being like hey
enterprise is failing to adopt AI and if
you look at you kind of dig into the why
behind it um there's all these security
and compliance concerns and so okay I
think there's a huge opportunity to
solve those uh to get much faster
adoption of these products there has to
be a Uber for tech support. When I was
in high school, I ran my own IT support
business just helping people around the
neighborhood fix their computers cuz
it's like set my Wi-Fi network up, set
my printer, you know, whatever. And the
fact there's still not a scaled
solution, it just blows my mind for
this. like you have a lot of people that
you know are older that are not native
to technology that uh have a bunch of
money and want this stuff to be set up
and you have this young generation that
desperately needs money that has a ton
of expertise on technology and so a
business that matches those that's kind
of supply and demand I mean we also
spend a lot of time um helping people
figure out the idea actually and and
like it's really hard it's
extraordinarily hard
>> I don't think everyone realizes how
Amplitude started it out. Could you
maybe talk about your journey to
actually finding the Amplitude idea and
maybe reflections on it a decade later?
So before Amplitude, um we started this
company called Sonet Light, which was a
voice recognition. It was like early
version of Siri and it had this really
amazing demo actually where you could it
listened in the background for your
voice and this was before any of the hey
Siri, hey Alexa stuff. Um and so it like
listened in the background on Android
phone and as far as we could tell we
were the first to come out with the
technology. We didn't know anything
about what made for a successful product
or business or company and we were just
kind of taking our shot on that. Um we
were just two kids at a at a college um
that were like okay what's a problem
that seems barely at the edge of
possible. Let's let's you know that's
probably an interesting place for us to
to go to um you know and we ended up
choosing choosing voice recognition not
because we were passionate about the
space. So we we did YC with that. We did
uh went through the whole batch did demo
day did this amazing demo on stage. We
got tons of press written about us. Uh
but the product and the tech, it was
just not good enough. It wasn't a good
enough uh uh product. And so we ended up
right after demo day deciding to shut
that down. Um and then we had always uh
built our own analytics in house uh you
know because like it's what you do as an
engineer. You're always like I want to
build this instead of paying amplitude
money because it was very clear to us
the this was the right way to build
product. It was you would look at what
people did in your product. you would
understand them deeply and you could
build and iterate on a better product.
Um, and so we ended up when we showed
what we had done in the analytics side
to a lot of other companies, they're
like, "Hey, we want this." And so that
uh right after uh uh YC Winter 2012 demo
day, uh we ended up uh pivoting to to
Amplitude. And that was I think that was
June of of 2012.
>> Analytics was a pretty crowded space at
that point.
>> Extraordinarily crowded.
>> Like what like did that factor into your
thinking about
>> getting into it at all? a little bit,
you know, and so you have to ask
yourself, it's like, okay, why do you
think you're different? We knew this was
a particularly good problem for compared
to voice recognition, you know, and a
lot of this AI stuff, frankly, that was
those were probabilistic problems. So,
you could not get a right answer. And we
were a bunch of algorithms engineers
coming out of MIT. Um and so this
problem of how do you analytics seems
amazing because it's like okay you build
this really scaled distributed system
and you can get a right answer and it's
just about doing it better and faster
that sounds great and amazing uh in
comparison to voice recognition. I think
in retrospect you know we got lucky that
we were particularly suited for for that
problem. And then the other part of the
other point of view I think I had was
that I'd see all these great engineers
and these great founders who uh built
these amazing pieces of technology but
just did not really understand how to
how to get it in the hands of customers
and sell it and all that. So I'm like
okay I'm going to go full I'm going to
go all in on learning how to do that. I
don't even think I do that particularly
well. Uh but just because we were
willing to do that and kind of build the
next thing and build the next thing and
build the next thing. You know you
compound that 10 years later and and and
now you're the leader in the space. Do
you have like a method for learning
these things? Like one of the things I
remember was um once you went to
Amplitude, then it was you know B2B
sales and then you got really good at it
but you didn't know anything about
>> I'm not good at B2B sales to be clear. I
still feel an imposttor to this day
>> but being able to do it at all like from
an engineering background I mean and
being willing to learn how to do it and
realizing like oh this is actually my go
to market and I have to do it this way.
>> Yeah. analytics. I I think in particular
there are some products that you can
adopt without selling in that like
people just you know they have single
player mode. You know cursor's a great
example, Slack's a great example, but
there's some where you need to convince
multiple people at the same time that
you're going to go do it and that
requires a sales motion. The number one
misconception I had was like this would
be something you learn out of a book or
on a website or you know you kind of
read about but one you have to do it and
it's like two you just want to get
someone who's good at coaching you. So,
we worked with this guy Mitch Mirando
who coached uh you know was a a sales
exec who had gone on to coach a bunch of
other companies. Um and I just happened
to randomly meet him through through uh
uh the sensor tower guys actually. Um
and I was like okay this is the expert I
need you know teach me everything you
know about sales. Um he's like whoa whoa
slow down. And then he would just come
in uh once a week and just beat me up
and just being like hey you don't really
you know what's the customer pain? and
I'm like, "Oh, they want some dashboards
or charts. Like, Spencer, it's not a
business pain. Like, what's the pain?"
And so, after a while, like finally get
the message. Um, it's very much like
learning a sport or to play an
instrument. In a lot of ways, you're not
going to do it reading a book. You want
to just do it and then get a little bit
of advice and coaching on the side.
Like, that's the that's the much much
better approach.
>> I mean, you said this several times even
in this hour that um, you know, you find
certain people who are really really
great. if you could, you know, give the
the 20-year-old version of yourself like
the cheat sheet on what you learned
about finding those mentors, like are
there, you know, is there is it like I
know it when I see it or, you know,
there's a track record or it's so hard.
I mean, I've been extraordinarily lucky.
I This is one of the great parts of
Silicon Valley is there's such a
positive sum, help others, pay it
forward mentality. I mean, Mitch was an
amazing one. um you know is very clear.
I mean the best advice I can have is be
clear in your own head about what you're
trying to learn and then you know be
open to where it comes from. So you
first need to be clear on what you're
trying to do and that's what I think
people [ __ ] that up a lot. They don't
get really crystal clear on why they're
trying to build a startup or what they
need to do to be successful and then
from there you know how you get the how
you get the mentorship or advice may
come from a lot of different directions.
>> Can I ask like one more kind of meta
question? Hearing you speak about your
experience at Amplitudes, uh, it's just
really inspiring to me because like you
go all the way into the details. You
have this cap capability to like
hyperfocus and then I guess like how do
you direct it? Like how do you know that
you're hyperfocusing on the thing that
you know really is the number one thing?
Like do you have like a cycle in the
back where you're like I just you know
spent 10 minutes thinking about blah.
But like is that actually the most
important thing or not? like how do you,
you know, prevent just like rat holeing
on something?
>> It's hard. One of the things I did
before starting a company was getting re
real clear in my head as to what I
wanted to do with my career and why. And
one of the takeaways I had was uh you
know, you want to dedicate yourself to a
mission that's greater than yourself. Um
and you be part of contributing
something larger to humanity. And what I
knew how to do was to, you know, build
software and sell it. And so like, okay,
what's the best way I can do that? You
know, starting a company. And then from
there, it's just, you know, like you
kind of the goal, you know, you create a
goal tree that that goes down from
there. Okay, let's uh let's figure out
what product to build. Let's figure out
how to sell that product, you know, and
then it it just it kind of falls into
place. I I I find that where people get
screwed up the most on that is they are
not clear. And by the way, speaking of
starting a company, it's extraordinarily
emotionally painful. Like I do not
recommend it for the vast majority of
people. I mean, there's so many times
like every few years I've gotten to a
spot where I feel like I want to quit um
the business. And you feel that deeply.
Um and the best counter to that is I
kind of go back to the why of why I I
kind of came into this business. And so
I think
if you get that top node really right,
you can always kind of anchor or go back
to that. you always know, okay, look, if
I just continue to see this through
somehow, I don't know necessarily how
it'll lead back to, hey, I'm going to
create a, you know, build technology and
and make the world a, you know, a a
better place in my own little way. Um,
so I I just I I that would be my number
one advice for, you know, anyone that
that's coming out of school or thinking
of starting a company is get really
clear on that. I think the worst I I see
you guys see it all the time, which is
like, hey, you know, I'll do it and if
it takes off, I'll I'll double down. if
not, I'll go back to grad school or a
job or whatever. And that's like the
freaking worst of this because you have
to put up with uncertainty for long
periods of time. You have to have all
these existential questions hanging over
your head. It's it's um you're not going
to get through it. Like if you look, one
of the big takeaways like I I read uh
founders at work. Um and one of the
really clear takeaways from any of these
journeys is there is a point that you
get to a year, maybe two years in where
from a rational standpoint, you probably
should quit. um but for whatever reason
um those successful ones don't and so
that is the number one filtering
criteria. Now not to say you know that
you know there's no guarantees getting
that that top node really clear so that
you can anchor on it um over very long
periods of time is the most important I
found
>> intrinsic motivation.
>> Yeah. If you if you're doing it for like
recognition from others or or you know
hey you know because you gonna get paid
a lot or whatever else you'll your your
ability to last through is going to be
much much worse than someone else's.
>> I mean embedded in that you know I'm
taken by earlier you were saying like at
every point of amplitude there's sort of
a moment where you have to learn how to
do something and like grow into that. Uh
and then being a public company CEO is
one of those things. walk me through
like the you know how you started like
the you know the intrinsic motivation
and then now it's like it feels like you
have a really big responsibility on your
back. It's like you know people look to
you for leadership and you know you were
the leader of a great many people and
they have families and lives you know
hopes
>> and they're betting their careers on on
what we're doing here. It's it's a it's
a it's a very deep responsibility. As a
founder your job is always to run to the
most difficult problem in the business
and lead from the front. And so if
there's an incredibly difficult piece of
code, uh a difficult product or design
problem, a difficult customer, um you
know, a difficult employee problem,
whatever, you need to go, the great
founders will go head first into it and
lead from the front and they will rally
the the rest of the team behind them.
Even if you look at the successful
founder CEOs, after about a decade, most
of them leave. And in my mind, it's
actually for this very reason because
being a large company executive is
different. Um, and because you you you
can't lead by example everywhere all the
time. There are places you can, but you
can't do it universally because it's
like, okay, you got to do in sales, you
got to do in marketing, you got to do on
people, you got to do it on um the
product, you got to do it with
customers, you got to do with the press.
In fact, it's like the list goes on.
There's just too much. You have to be
much more disciplined about your time
and say no to most stuff. And then what
you realize is
you become the person you hate. You'd
always make fun of big company
executives for not doing any work for
themselves and just like judging other
people's work all the time. But there's
a reason for that and you have to
embrace that reason and and so it's it's
this very hard that is a very hard thing
to unlearn. Another thing which still
trips me up to this day and I hate and I
try to run Amplitude differently but
there's truth to it is like hierarchy.
>> There is a reason for hierarchy.
>> Oh yeah, I've learned that the hard way
many times. need to have people who own
certain things and who are responsible
for leading certain teams and other
people within the business. It's much
easier in my mind, I think, to be a
large company executive because you have
all these resources, you have all this
leverage, you actually work less hard,
your product market fit, and you're
running, you know, like you're deploying
like, you know, we're 350 million in
revenue and and you know, we're
deploying
close to that in terms of total spend
every year. So, you have a lot of
resources to do stuff. Now, you're
learning about how do you actually
deploy those resources effectively. So,
so, uh, so there's leverage that you
have as a large company executive that
you don't as a founder, which is
awesome. And, you know, but it's a
different very different tool set and a
very different, um, set of skills in
order to, uh, build a business
successfully. Um, and that's been the
hardest transition by far. I think this
will be really interesting next couple
years then because like sort of this
flies a little bit in the face of the
most fililel view of what founder mode
is like the most filile view is like you
have to be all the way in the weeds 100%
of the time which is like obviously not
possible when you have 800 employees
>> you can't do it everywhere you have to
be clear on where you're doing it
>> yeah so there's just like a lot more
nuance to how to do that
>> yeah I mean you know it's one of these
like you know there's like a million
management books about this thing and
you know they kind of all try to
abstract it into some framework and it's
none of them are Right? You go through
it and experience it yourself and get
coaching from others who do and that
that's how you end up figuring it out.
But that that transition to large
company executive. That one's a really
hard one.
>> Well, in the immortal words of uh Bob
Marley, uh one good thing about product
market fit is when it hits, you feel no
pain.
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
>> Oh yeah. Growth solves all problems.
>> And then hopefully people watching this
will actually get a chance to experience
some of the problems that you get to
live on a daily basis.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. One of the
things I'm actually very appreciative,
Gary, uh that you um and PG and Jessica
and others are doing is just helping
people tell these later stage stories.
One of the things I think YC's done
exceptionally well is like, you know, to
the extent you can have a playbook for
what is like the early stage stages, you
guys have, you know, written and talked
about it and and made everyone out there
aware of it so they they know what the
path is and what it looks like. It's
still incredibly hard, but you know, now
it's like, okay, you at least has some
guidance. doesn't exist for a lot of the
later stage stuff as you grow up. So,
I'm very appreciative that uh that that
you guys are building that.
>> There's levels to it, but thank you for
sharing your levels.
>> No, of course.
>> Do you feel like we could turn what you
did with Amplitude into the playbook for
how SAS companies should reinvent
themselves in the AI era?
>> You know, I still feel like an imposttor
on this thing to this day, but I I'm
very happy to contribute. You have to
get very judicious with your time. There
are a lot of people who want your time.
um you know and you could spend infinite
time within people in the organization
with customers with you know partners
with you know investors whoever and so
you have to think about like like no one
owns your time but you as a founder
you're just like nobody cares and so
you're just desperate for anyone to give
you attention so if they do you're like
okay this is great but as you know large
company it's like no no like you have to
be very very judicious one of the things
I am deliberately trying to do is just
be more out there and vocal um so you
see it on Twitter you see it you know
I'm just trying to be unfil there's
still you know there's still an aperture
you're constrained to as a public
company CEO, but most are just so
conservative they're not putting
anything out there. And so, you know,
I'm at least trying to kind of share my
story, put it out there, put my hot
takes on, you know, polit politics,
religion, whatever, you know, uh,
products, uh, companies out there. So,
at least at least others, you know, can
can learn and and benefit from that,
too. And honestly, it's like it's just
who I am, you know, ultimately. I I want
to be able to express who I am. I don't
want to argue with people on the
internet. I I I don't want to have to be
this other persona that that I'm not,
you know, or try to represent something
I'm not. You know, if I believe and I
have conviction in something, I want to
be able to say it.
>> Spencer, thank you so much for spending
time with us. This is super illuminating
and can't wait to see Amplitude AI, the
new resurgence coming into every company
in the world.
>> There is going to be a reinvention of
analytics uh in the next few years. And
you know, we we want to be the ones to
go lead it. So, thank you guys.
>> You heard it here first. We'll see you
guys next time.