Title: Hiroshi Mikitani at Startup School 2012
Video ID: tF7HXJJjRvY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tF7HXJJjRvY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2013-10-25T10:40:45Z
Duration: PT25M33S
Views: 30781
Likes: 201
Tags: Y Combinator, Rakuten, Hiroshi Mikitani, Startup School, 2012, YC
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 562

Description:
Hiroshi Mikitani, founder of Rakuten, at Y Combinator Startup School on October 20, 2012.

Presented in Stanford Memorial Auditorium by Y Combinator and the Stanford Technology Ventures Program.

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thank you for coming. Thank you very
much for inviting so many people.
There's a lot of people. Um so maybe to
start you could just tell us a little
bit about what Rocket is and how you got
started. Okay. So um I founded Rockton
in
1997. As a matter of fact, you know, I
was trying to partner with uh uh one of
your founder Paul Graham. Uh and uh you
know uh my concept was to really create
what we call internet shopping mall in
Japan. uh and it was very very you know
a arty days and uh we tried to do it
with full for various reason it didn't
go through uh so we started to hire uh
you know young graduate school students
uh started from initial capital of
200,000 uh USD
uh never raised any money uh from any VC
uh just hired uh young guys and went
public in year 2000 and started to uh
you know buy many companies. Uh now we
are number one in e-commerce about uh 35
to 40% market share uh in terms of
e-commerce. Uh number one in online
travel, number one in online banking, uh
number two in online brokerage and we do
about uh 38 uh different uh businesses
in Japan. Uh and in we started to
globalize our business. So now we are in
more than 13 countries. Um we bought um
the second largest uh e-reader company
called Coobo uh which is doing extremely
uh well in Europe in Canada in uh and uh
in Asia. So uh we we are a little bit
different uh internet uh company in
Japan uh and now trying to globalize our
business.
How is starting a company in Japan and
and growing a company in Japan different
than Silicon Valley? Well, you know,
there is no really, you know, venture
capital ecosystem. Not at all. There are
venture capitals uh but but not like uh
you know uh you know Silicon Valley type
uh sort of fruit service VCs. they will
invest but uh not much uh they will not
get involved into the uh management that
much so just kind of providing uh the
capital so how did you learn the lessons
that VCs in Silicon Valley tradition
traditionally help entrepreneurs with
how did you learn how to run a company
and grow it I don't know how Silicon
Valley VCs are helping VCs venture
companies because I have never
experienced uh but the way I again I
found it uh reacting with my own uh you
know the money uh initial capital was uh
just 200,000 uh USD but uh since I knew
that I'm not going to be funded uh a
huge amount from VC I created sort of
cash flow system so that I don't need to
rely on on BC uh we asked our merchant
uh to pay uh $500 per month but we asked
them to pay us 6 months up front. So
from the second month of our service uh
my company was cash flow positive.
You've been cash positive every month
since the very impressive.
[Applause]
Is there any looking back to that first
year uh you know when you were sort of
becoming cash fl positive very quickly
and figuring this out as you went um are
there any things that stick out that you
would do differently? Well, so again we
never raised any money from outside. Uh
we raised uh later on uh from uh friends
and families. Just this is we didn't
need any money but this was kind of just
a you know for the friendship uh for
sake. Uh because I want to make my
family and my friends happy. Uh but how
far along were you when you did that
friends and family round? No. Uh that
was like 6 months before we go public.
Uh you
know 2 days before we our IPO uh my
friend Mason of Soft Bank called me and
then asked me to let him in but I said
it's too late.
Uh but uh well
we were very patient to be very honest.
We were very patient for the first 3
years. Uh and uh try to re uh create the
you know connell of our business model.
Uh so we're not trying to copy the the
model of Amazon.com or eBay. We are
trying to really create a great system
to support a medium to smalls size
merchant to sell their product all over
Japan. So uh we really try to create a
extremely strong culture of the company
uh because I knew that I'm going to uh
be in this business for a long long
time. So we didn't rush. We we were very
patient. Did did you figure out that
kernel on the first try? Did you get
right the thing that made Rocket 10 what
it is the first try? Did you have to
iterate and evolve to get there? Well,
one one thing we did differently from
most of uh US-based e-commerce company
is we try to facilitate uh the
communication between the merchants and
the consumers because uh the way I feel
is of course you know buying products
price is important uh the efficiency is
important but more than that in my
opinion I think you know should be fun
and we need to create uh very rich
experiments. Uh so we try to be a liasen
uh between the consumer and the retailer
instead of you know trying to compete
against uh the retailer using the IT. We
want to use our technology to help small
to mediumsiz enterprise do business with
consumer. So that was totally different
idea and I was 100% confident uh my
employees uh will really uh like the
idea of helping small to mediumsiz
companies rather than trying to destroy
their business. So I mean as you said
this is very different than anyone else
was doing in e-commerce at the time and
really still is. Did you know that uh
that that was going to be the model you
were going to go after before you
started the company? Was that were were
you convinced that this was what you
were going to do differently? uh we
didn't think about how we going to do it
differently but we know what we wanted
to do. I always don't think about our
competitor that much because you know
you cannot do too many things about it
right you just need to focus on what you
do uh to improve your uh you know
service and improve customer
satisfaction I think that's part of
nature of uh of of Japanese uh companies
keep improving improving improving right
how did you grow in both in the early
days when you were signing up these
small and medium businesses that you
wanted to help and then in the later
days obviously you've uh made a lot of
acquisitions
um to help drive growth. Could you just
talk about how you figured out growth
all along the way? Well, of course, we
have a organic growth and we buy many
companies uh then domestically and
internationally. The domestically uh we
created three things. One great brand.
Uh by the way, we have a professional
baseball rack eagles. Uh and uh so
everybody uh knows Rockton brand. Even
if you don't use internet, they know
Rockton brand. Uh we host ATB 500 tennis
tournament. So we have extremely strong
brand. Uh two uh we created uh the the
strongest um mileage reward program
called super points. So we can use those
points to cross- sell our service. Uh
and uh we also created uh the the sort
of the consumer database to analyze
consumer data. And now about uh 8 80
million so about uh 90% of internet
populations are are member and then and
we can use our currency our points to
cross- sell various service to them.
Uh back to the topic of acquisitions.
What do you look for when you make an
acquisition and and how do you integrate
the the company into record 10 so that
you're all one company together? Yeah.
So there's two types of acquisitions we
make. uh one is purely a geographic
expansion to buy a time. So we bought a
buy.com in the US, play.com uh in UK, uh
price minister uh in France uh and we
try to use their presence and brand name
and uh uh the their presence uh and and
convert their business model to lock
model. The second type is uh addition to
our uh ecosystem uh our value chain like
cobalt uh which is not doing uh as uh
well as in other countries but they're
very strong they have number one market
share and in Canada and uh in France and
in Japan. Uh so the we need we knew that
we need a a digital book uh service uh
in our uh sort of a product lineup. Uh
so and we know that we can use our
membership to be uh facilitate the
growth of coobbo business. So um uh so
there is two types geographic expansion
and to buy a time and also addition to
our ecosystem. And then once you make
these acquisitions, how do how do you
integrate them into the culture of
Rocket? Uh mission uh practice and
value. So before buying a company uh we
talk about our dream and our goal and
our culture and talk over and over and
over again before we make acquisitions.
if they don't like our culture or our
practice or mission, we are not we don't
going to buy even if you like the
service because it's it doesn't make
sense to lose the you know founders and
and management of of the company. So we
we talk over before uh the closure of
the deal uh we talk a lot about those
kind of things. And what's your success
rate for acquisitions in terms of good
integration on those points?
Oh, it's a difficult question. I don't
know but uh they're still on our one uh
you know only one failure we made uh was
uh we went uh into China uh partnering
with BU uh which is largest search
engine company in China uh but it didn't
work out well. So we all we discussed
with them and agreed that we should shut
the business down and we we withdrew
from China year ago. So that's is the
only uh you know uh uh the the big
failure u uh I recognize at this moment
even more than the sort of the three
culture values you've talked about. Um
you know one thing that I I've just
heard again and again is that Rocket is
known for having having a great culture.
Could you talk about h how you've held
that culture all the way through for the
last 15 years as you said. um how how do
you think about the culture the company
needs to be to be success needs to have
to be successful? So in my opinion uh
you need to have two things. One is of
of course innovation and the second part
is operation and innovation is kind of
not so difficult to really encourage
people to be uh innovative but at the
same time if you want to scale your
business you need to have a very strong
operation culture as well. Uh and in
order to achieve strong operation
culture uh you need to have sort of you
know the shared practices
uh and the uh you know the it's kind of
a the framework uh for uh managing the
company uh probably mainly using more
numbers and KPIs but mo most likely uh
the entrepreneurs don't like you know
just running the numbers but I think uh
you know uh being uh you know
quantitative uh analytically
quantitative is also very important.
So so recently you invested in
Pinterest. Um could you talk a little
bit about how that came together and
what you see in Pinterest and how you
hope the relationship is going to
evolve. Well I think Pinterest of course
Ben spoke right I just had a phone call
with him uh and I think I love Yeah. He
was great. He's great. We like the
company. uh and uh I think Pinterest is
very different from other social
networks. Uh it's very uh you know
graphical uh and appeals to the heart of
your interest. Uh and it has a strong
influence over to uh buying behavior and
buying decision of of the people. So as
an e-commerce company I think the
Pinterest is the best social network.
So, we found Pinterest and I had a
meeting with Ben uh had a drink and koke
and u you know he liked me and he let us
in.
What? And I think uh maybe you should
ask Ben, but u well he he saw I think he
has seen something different in us uh
you know compared with other uh US-based
uh internet companies or VCs. I will ask
him um what do you see as the big
challenges uh and the opportunities in
in in retail and e-commerce um coming
down over the next few years. Of course,
you know, I think uh this is still the
stage stage one uh for e-commerce. Now
we are seeing a lots of digital content
sales. So the books, CDs, DVDs, uh
games, everything will be digital and
online. Uh definitely the uh the
logistics will become more and more
important. Uh uh and there are lots of
uh innovative uh logistics companies uh
you know using uh you know robots uh and
automation uh to you know uh improve the
the efficiency uh and also the devices
uh the mobile phone, smartphones uh the
tablet uh will become uh the major
device to to buy products and maybe
there will be sort of social uh I think
The social shopping is
uh still nobody really find the strong
answer to it but I think in the future
it will come for for social shopping or
anything else. Are are there major ways
you identified that Japanese consumers
behave differently than consumers
anywhere else in the world? Well, Laken
is what I call very shop ccentric uh
marketplace. uh meaning that we there
every shop uh have a very different uh
you know characters and also the design
and the user experience and we provide
all sorts of tools uh to for them to
make fans around shop. So uh I think u
rack was very social from the day one we
try to create a fans around shops not
around rock.co.jp JP but fans around
shops and all these shops has what you
know professional staff and they are the
sort of curator of the wines or sports
goods or you know groceries and so
forth. So I think um my question is so
if you want to buy some product do you
want to ask your friend or do you want
to ask the staff at pro shop? uh and my
of course sometimes your your friend uh
is can give you better advice than this
staff at the pro shop but most time you
know I think uh you know you should ask
professionals uh so that was our
approach and u I think um it worked
extremely well in Japan and now we're
testing in other countries and I think
it's it's working very well as well
and can you talk you talked a little bit
about mobile and tablets But obviously
uh in Japan that's become a huge way
that people are interacting probably
even bigger than here where it seems
like everyone's on the phone all the
time. H how much are you thinking about
mobile and how are you thinking about
mobile is sort of the future of the
company? Well, already 25% of ractton
transaction which is big. We do about uh
15 billion uh USD or or even more this
year just for pure e-commerce in Japan
and already 25% of uh transaction is
coming from uh mobile devices including
feature phone and smartphone and maybe
60% smartphone and 40% feature phone. uh
and smartphone transaction is growing
about uh 300 to 400% yearonear. So it
will be soon more than uh 50% within a
couple of years. It's it's huge. Yeah,
that is huge. You said something earlier
that uh was so interesting to me. I I
made a note to go back to which is that
you don't think a lot about competition
because you can't do much about that. Um
one thing that uh I I hear from startups
all the time is fear about competition.
So when you were starting the company
and and Amazon and eBay were were huge,
was that a problem for you? Did people
ask you what are you going to do about
Amazon and eBay? Uh you know, how are
you going to beat them? How are you
going to compete with them? And how did
you think about uh sort of how did you
stay focused on doing your own thing and
ignoring competition? Well, let me put
it. I learn from competitors, but I'm
not afraid of competitors. Uh because
even if you're afraid of, it doesn't be
any good for you. So I learn what
they're doing and then maybe uh you know
uh try to match uh if I have to uh but I
think the the way we um approach
e-commerce is totally different from
Amazon.com because again we are trying
to facilitate the transaction uh with
medium to small margins to the larger
ones uh to the to the consumers. As a
consequence uh uh you know we have big
brands almost all department stores uh
big big uh fashion brands
um almost entire electronic companies
are using our platform but but that and
that's major portion of our business but
our approach is to how to help small to
mediumsiz merchants to do business with
the consumers. So, but that's the uh I I
think we have a philosophical difference
between ourselves and Amazon.com. So,
I'm not very afraid of them, but we I'm
always thinking about how we can uh
scale uh our
business. How are we doing on time, by
the way? Five. Um all right, let's see
what's most interesting here. We were
talking a little bit backstage about
just sort of Japanese culture and and
the differences between uh starting a
startup here and we talked about
investing. Could you talk about hiring
um and how you hired the initial people
and especially in a culture where
joining a startup is not as cool as it
was maybe now as it is in the valley.
Well, now of course uh it's different
from 15 years ago when I started a
company. uh you know uh nobody really
wanted to work for uh small startups but
now they have seen many successes uh and
there are so many young people uh who
want to work for the uh you know
startups and ventures and so forth.
Uh I think the way I I have been hiring
uh younger people and not not uh to hire
uh the immed uh to uh you know upper age
people as much as possible uh because I
knew that uh we want to embrace our
original corporal culture. Uh so that
was very important for me to hire
younger people and educate them
especially in early days. After we went
public, we started to hire many what we
call gray gray hair people. Uh and uh
you know we because we need that we need
to have more uh professional expertise.
uh and uh two and a half years ago uh we
announced that we are going to convert
uh internal communication language from
Japanese to English and this was a big
splash uh in the Japanese society and uh
some CEOs you know you know explicitly
announced that we are crazy company
doesn't matter who we are but uh uh now
u 70% of uh new engineers joinings are
non-Japanese uh 30% % of new employees
are non-Japanese. So, we are truly
globalizing our, you know, recruitment.
Mark Zuckerberg a few years ago made a
comment about hiring young people uh
preferentially and it was the all that
the press talked about for two weeks.
So, maybe you'll be featured a lot. Um,
not now. I'm talking not now.
Um, why did you make that decision to
make English the official language of
the company? Well, so the thing I have
done uh in Japan is we try to create a
open culture company. So we disclose
almost all information to entire
employees. So the people who is doing
e-commerce know what's going on for our
banking business and we cross share all
these expertise and platforms as much as
possible. you know web marketing uh you
know engineering um and and so forth and
so forth. So that was our strengths. How
common is that for Japanese companies to
do to share everything openly? Well,
sharing the opening up is very common
and we call this yokotan meaning
horizontal how do you call it uh you
know transfer of expertise uh and I
think that is one of the strengths of
Japanese company uh because you know
it's not good or bad it's not so
performanceoriented review system
uh and uh I wanted to do this globally
uh but I couldn't because most of the
expertise is in Japan and our most of
our staff cannot communicate in English.
Uh so you know I I was kind of um lias
between our global business and Japanese
business and I was getting really really
tired just you know talking with you
know and being translated everything and
uh so um one day I I woke up and um you
know thought about doing everything in
in English uh and so I stood in front of
uh entire 7,000 employees and told them
I am going to convert the uh official
business language of Raken from Japanese
to English and what was the reaction in
that room when you very
quiet very quiet but it has totally
changed uh the uh toy score of our
employees improved almost 200 points uh
for the last two years what score sorry
it's like a uh English test uh you know
and uh most of of the staff can manage
to communicate in English they're not
afraid of you know going abroad to join
into the international conference. Now
we have so many uh people uh you know
non-Japanese uh foreigners uh in our
Tokyo office and uh now they started to
benchmark uh international uh players
instead of domestic players. So totally
changed. That's great. One last
question. Um we were talking backstage
uh and the last time that Paul and
Mickey met was uh 16 or 17 years ago
when Paul was working on via web. Um, so
Paul loves to ask people at these uh
what was so and so like the first time
you met them. So finally we get to ask
what Paul Graham was like the first time
you met him. So it's it's written in the
Harvard Business School case. So I
initially I when after I left my bank, I
started sort of a you know uh business
consulting firm and I was looking for
something new to do and you know came up
with the internet shopping um idea and
one of my u classmate at Harvard's
business school called me uh Mickey you
need to look at this company it's called
bio web and it's my friend's company so
I went to bowe.com and took a look at it
I really liked it uh next day I bought a
air economy class airplane ticket and
flew over to Boston and I went visit
Paul and it was five people company and
we kind of agreed that we're going to do
things together uh and but the last
minute uh you know Paul was supposed to
come over to uh Japan but at the airport
he found out his passport is
expired so he couldn't come and somehow
the deal didn't go through so But uh I
feel that was a really uh the first
moment I uh felt uh I met the uh the
truly strong uh entrepreneur and I feel
the excitement and the energy uh in Paul
and in his team. That is great not to
end on. Thank you very much. Thank you.