Title: Paul Buchheit
Video ID: v5w-0H-hq6E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v5w-0H-hq6E
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-07-31T14:37:14Z
Duration: PT20M54S
Views: 24416
Likes: 427
Tags: Y Combinator, Startup School, Startup School Europe 2014, Paul Buchheit
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 553

Description:
Talk at Startup School Europe 2014 at The Brewery in London

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I'm very very excited to introduce our
next speaker. Uh Paul Buhight is a one
of my partners at Y Cominator. Um he
also was one of the very early employees
at Google where he's known as u the
inventor of Gmail and uh the creator of
the don't be evil motto. Uh he also
started a uh startup shortly after
leaving Google uh called Friendfeed
which was acquired by Facebook. Um my
favorite thing about Paul though is that
he was an early angel investor in
just.tv and really helped keep us alive
in the early days. So please welcome
Paul Buhight to the stage.
Thank you,
Justin. And
uh thank all of you. I'm very excited to
be here. London is an amazing city. I
was
uh eager to come speak here just if for
no other reason than to visit. But uh
it's good to talk to all of you. So
you've heard a lot of great startup
advice today and this is going to be
something else.
[Music]
So I often advise startups that it's
better to seek deep appeal to create
something that a few people love even if
most people don't get it right away. In
that spirit, I've decided to share the
technology and dreams that matter to me
with the hope that it will be very
appealing to the right
person. This is after all a business
defined by
outliers. Someone in this room is going
to create something very important.
That's the person I'm hoping to reach.
We talk a lot about technology and its
ability to transform and improve the
world. But technology is more than just
the transistors and algorithms. Those
are just patterns on silicon. The
technology that really drives the world
are the patterns in your head. Those are
the patterns that give rise to the
patterns in silicon, the patterns in our
society, in our whole concept of
reality. Change those patterns and you
change your world. Maybe not overnight,
but like steering the rudder on a great
ship. A small change now makes a big
difference
later. We often sweat life's big
decisions, but it's the little decisions
that matter the most. The ones we make
thousands of times a day, often without
even realizing it. The big decisions are
the inevitable result of those small
decisions. They steered the ship into
port, created the conditions that gave
rise to the situation, and then perhaps
we feel that our hand has been forced.
the big decision must be made, but
really it was made by the thousands of
small decisions leading up to
it. We all know the power of defaults.
This is about my defaults, the things I
try to keep top of mind and return to
when I'm stuck, confused, or doubtful.
It's an effort to tune and improve my
patterns, my
technology. First, I don't know
anything. That's a warning. If you take
this all on my authority, then you're
missing the point. You must own your own
programming. Also, it's the first
pattern. If I believe that I already
know the answer and possess the truth,
then I'm not genuinely open to learning
larger
truths. This is the danger of
experience. We already know better. We
already know that an idea or business
won't work. This is one reason that
naive young founders are often the ones
who start the most successful companies.
They just don't know any better and
they're often too arrogant to listen to
those who
do. I don't want to downplay the value
of experience. This whole event is about
sharing and learning from the
experiences of others. But don't be
limited by our
experiences. Just because it didn't work
in the past doesn't mean it won't work
in the future. Likewise, what worked
before may not work
again. This is especially important for
startup founders. The best opportunities
live in our collective blind spots. To
most, they appear to be bad ideas or
simply unimportant. If everyone could
see the opportunity, someone else would
have already taken it. In 1997, Larry
and Sergey tried to sell Google for a
million
dollars. Fortunately, they were unable
to find a buyer. The conventional wisdom
of the time was that search was neither
important nor valuable. Of course,
experience isn't the only danger. Dogma
and ideology are even worse. They
provide us with the answers and put
boundaries around our thinking. Ignoring
the dogma invites ridicule or even
punishment. I suspect that's why more
ideological societies are less
innovative. If we aren't free to wander
outside the realms of conventional
thinking, then we won't happen upon the
opportunities that others have
missed. Escaping dogma is hard. From the
inside, it simply looks like truth and
reality. Watch out for any belief that
limits the range of your thinking and
exploration. This includes logic and
reason. They are useful tools, but just
as often work to keep us trapped inside
of exclusionary belief systems. If you
believe yourself to be a rational
person, then you're in the
trap. To be innovative in our work, we
need to evade the limitations of
established thinking. Which brings me to
the second pattern.
Kill all demon
processes. For those of you who aren't
familiar with operating system
internals, demons are computer programs
that run in the background performing
various services, often invisible to the
user. Sometimes they get out of control
and start consuming all of the machine's
memory, processor, or other computing
resources. This is one reason why your
computer or phone often works better
after a reboot. I like this analogy for
the same kinds of loops that operate in
our brains, like when a song gets stuck
in your head. The more insidious loops
are the voices of doubt, anger, and
self-loathing that infect our minds.
Often they are the internalized voices
of our parents, peers, the media, or
just random people on the
internet. Other times, they pose as our
own voice, possibly one that has been
there for as long as we can remember.
Either way, these loops are often
parasitic and limiting. Anytime we take
a risk or move in a new direction, they
are there to doubt and criticize us.
Anytime we seek to escape dogma, they
are there to ridicule and condemn
us. Creating an innovative new product
often means spending years working on
something that most people doubt the
value of. It's hard to do that with a
headful of noise. Voices telling us that
we're being foolish and that we should
just cut our
losses. Before we launched Gmail, many
people inside of Google thought that the
whole project should be scrapped. One
notable executive predicted that we
would never even get to a million users.
We can't let those people drag us down.
In order to grow, be free, and reclaim
our mental resources, it helps to clear
out those voices. It's simple yet very
difficult because they'll keep coming
back. But with practice, we get
better. Right now,
stop, observe your
breath, and enjoy a moment of stillness
in your mind.
The voices that keep interrupting the
silence are the runaway processes. Keep
dismissing them until there aren't any
left. Our days are full of spare
moments. Instead of filling them with
Flappy Bird or Facebook, take the
opportunity to find a calm and clear
mind. Even if you don't always succeed,
it's the practice that matters. Walking
in nature also helps. The voices will
resist, of course. Continuing to assert
their own importance is one way they
survive.
My response, yes and thank you. That's
the third
pattern. Life rarely goes the way we
want it to. When we're taking risks and
trying something new, we should expect
that it often won't work out the way we
had planned. And even if we try to keep
our lives narrow and risk-f free, things
still won't work out the way we had
planned. We can get angry and frustrated
and stuck. or we can accept and move
forward, assuming that whatever happened
is somehow for the best. I found that
this is a great predictor of success
among startups. They all face setbacks,
but some are able to take those setbacks
and use them to their advantage. Others
just keep slamming their head against
the same wall, never making any real
progress. Uber has been rather masterful
at this. Here in London, they turned the
taxi strike into a huge growth
opportunity for themselves.
In my own life, I've observed that many
of the best things are rooted in some of
the worst events, and that I would not
have one without the other. But this is
about the small decisions more than the
big ones. Every day is full of setbacks
and disappointments. But I do my best to
say yes and thank you, accepting it as a
gift, however improbable that may seem
at the time. This pattern has an almost
magical way of transforming reality and
maintaining the forward flow of life.
The ability to accept a greater range of
outcomes opens the door to pattern
number four. Choose the more interesting
path. Oh, you know what? I had
[Music]
slides. I don't know
anything clearly. I also didn't make
these slides. Kevin did it for
me. Kill all demon
processes. Yes. And thank
you. Choose the more interesting
path. People often decide people People
People often ask how I decide which
startups to invest in. There's no simple
answer, but this is a big part of it.
When I heard about Justin TV in early
2007, my first response was to laugh and
ask if they were
serious. They said yes. So, I offered to
invest. The plan at the time was for
Justin Khan, that's Justin who was just
up here, to attach a camera to his head
and stream it live on the internet
247. It seemed a little insane, but I
was very curious to find out what would
happen. I found that kind of
interestingness is a very useful
signal. The immediate answer to what
would happen was a lot of people
trolling
Justin. Next, they added the ability for
anyone to stream their lives. Most of it
was boring or possibly illegal, but one
thing really caught on, video game
streaming. Eventually, they changed
their name to twitch.tv to focus
exclusively on competitive gaming. They
are now one of the most valuable
properties on the internet. Their
average daily viewer watches over 100
minutes per day, and they are the fourth
largest source of US internet traffic
after Netflix, Google, and Apple. I had
no idea that would happen. I mainly
invested because it sounded like an
interesting experiment and the founders
seem to genuinely believe that they were
on to
something. Interestingness is a sign of
unexplored or underexplored territory.
If I already know what the outcome is
going to be, that's not very
interesting. If it's completely random,
like gambling, that's also not very
interesting. But I find that great
startups exist in a space of productive
uncertainty. Regardless of whether they
succeed or fail, I'm likely to learn
something interesting.
That was my logic when joining Google in
1999. I expected that they would likely
get squashed by the much larger Alta
Vista. But the people were really smart,
so I believe that I could learn a lot in
the process. In fact, I can guarantee
success by simply redefining success to
include learning something interesting.
In this way, I've always succeeded and
also learned a lot.
If your startup has only one defi
definition of success, you're then
you're setting yourself up for
failure. It's tragic how many people are
sacrificing their lives on some startup
that they don't really care about in
pursuit of some external success they'll
likely never achieve. Personally, I
think it's a mistake. Which leads me to
pattern number
five. Love what you do.
It's often said that you should do what
you love, but that's mostly bad
advice. It encourages people to grind
away their lives in pursuit of some
mostly unattainable goal, such as being
a movie star or a billion startup
founder. And even if they do make it,
often reality is nothing like they
imagined it would be. So, they're still
unhappy. Do what you love is in the
future. Love what you do is right now.
As with the other patterns, it's meant
to guide the small decisions that we
make every moment of every day. It's
less ch about changing what you do and
more about changing how you do
it. One of the problems with having a
goal-oriented extrinsic mindset is that
it treats the time between now and task
completion as an annoying obstacle to be
endured. If you're doing something
that's difficult, uncertain, and takes a
long time, such as building a new
product or company, and you have that
mindset, then you're likely gambling
away a big chunk of your life.
Subconsciously, you may also compensate
by choosing smaller, more realistic
goals, and that's unfortunate. Plus,
it's
unpleasant. When I was working long
hours at Google, it wasn't because they
were whipping us to work harder. I would
have quit. I was doing it because I
genuinely love building things. It
wasn't all fun, of course, but I
typically enjoyed at least 80% of my
day. Do what you love treats what you
love as a fixed thing, but it's not. I
used to hate running. I would sometimes
force myself to run a few miles because
it's supposed to be healthy, but I never
liked it. Then I read a book that said
we were born to run and that it can be
fun. Inspired, I decided to try running
just for fun. Focus on the quality of
every step and forget about the goal
completion aspect of it. Very quickly, I
learned to enjoy running. And over time,
I've transformed my entire relationship
with fitness and exercise to be oriented
more towards
enjoyment. Naturally, this more
intrinsic approach ultimately improves
the quality of our efforts, which
generally leads to greater extrinsic
rewards as well. Intrinsic motivation
and exttrinsic motivation are best when
they are both pointed in the same
direction.
Real work always seems to involve a
certain amount of unpleasant grinding
effort, though, and startups often have
a lot of it. It's like having a baby.
It's 5% cute, adorable moments and 95%
dirty diapers and
vomit. The key to loving these more
unpleasant moments is meaning. If we
genuinely genuinely care about and
believe in our mission, then th those
difficult times begin to take on a more
heroic quality. Although it's critical
for a startup to have very immediate and
actionable plans such as write code and
talk to users, I believe it's also
important to maintain a meaningful and
inspiring vision. The sixth and final
pattern for today is one that I borrowed
from
Google. Maintain a healthy disregard for
the
impossible. I think Larry Paige learned
this as a kid at summer camp and to me
it represents the true innovative spirit
of the company.
Now that Google is huge and many have
grown cynical about the company, it's
easy to dismiss such things. But I
remember when it was a tiny startup that
nobody had heard of and I had to explain
to people that it was like Yahoo minus
all the features other than
search. People would just give me this
sad look that seemed to say, "I'm sorry,
you can't get a real
job." But inside the company, there were
these absurdly ambitious ideas that made
it feel like we were going to take over
the world. It was an exciting place to
be. Larry wanted to store and search the
whole web in memory even though our
machines only had a quarter gigabyte of
RAM. It was unrealistic at the time, but
Mo's law moves fast and very soon we
were doing it, but only because
everyone's thinking was already oriented
in that
direction. He also wanted self-driving
cars that would deliver
hamburgers. That hasn't happened yet,
but I bet it will.
For me, potentially impossible goals are
much more inspiring than realistic ones.
I'd rather fail at something awesome
than succeed at something
inconsequential. As with many of the
other patterns, this one is about
continually shedding the limitations of
outdated thinking. When I decided to
write the Gmail interface in JavaScript,
pretty much everyone who knew anything
about JavaScript or web browsers told me
that it was a bad idea. It had been
tried in the past and always ended in
disaster. But times change fast and
fortunately I was in an environment
where doing impossible things was not
just permitted but
encouraged. After we launched the
impossible quickly became the new normal
completely changing how we think about
web apps. That's
fun. For me startups are more than just
a clever way to make money. They are
machines for harnessing the fire of
human self-interest. Creating a
self-sustaining reaction capable of
rapidly transforming the world.
Self-interest is often treated as if it
were dirty or wrong. But NASA didn't get
to the moon by vilifying
gravity. It's often assumed that
business is all about money, but to me,
that's like saying that rockets are all
about rocket fuel. On some level, it's
true. You won't even make it off the
launch pad without fuel. But that myopic
view misses out on the larger purpose
and mission of the machine. Certainly,
some businesses really are about nothing
more than making money. But among the
truly significant founders I've known,
there's always a larger purpose. It's
not just a nihilistic pursuit of rocket
fuel. Before I finish, I want to mention
my impossible
goal. We now for the first time ever
have the technology and resources
necessary to make the world a great
place for everyone. We can provide
adequate food, housing, education, and
healthcare for everyone using only a
fraction of our labor and resources.
This means that we can put an end to
wage slavery. I don't have to work. I
choose to work. And I believe that
everyone deserves the same freedom I
have. If done right, it's also
economically superior, meaning that we
will all have more
wealth. We often talk about how
brilliant or visionary Steve Jobs was,
but there are probably millions of
people just as brilliant as he was. The
difference is that they likely didn't
grow up with great parents, amazing
teachers, and an environment where
innovation was the norm. Also, they
didn't live down the street from Steve
Waznjak. Economically, we don't need
more jobs. We need more Steve
Jobs. When we set everyone free, we
enable the outliers everywhere. The
result will be an unprecedented boom in
human creativity and
ingenuity. And now, the impossible part.
First, we have to learn how to get along
with each other and with
ourselves. I'm looking for full stack
hackers. People who understand that
technology is more than just patterns in
silicon. The same patterns and systems
of patterns exist everywhere. Capitalism
is a technology. Like the internal
combustion engine is tremendously
valuable and transformative, but it's
not beyond
improvement. The same goes for
government, religion, and everything
else. We have an incredible future ahead
of us, but we won't get there by
clinging to obsolete
patterns. As founders, we must start
small and work with the grain of what
is. The path is never obvious, and
innovation happens in the most
unexpected ways. The personal computer
was originally dismissed as a
toy. And if you think Instagram is just
a collection of photo filters, you're
missing the big picture. Maybe photo
sharing won't lead directly to world
peace, but helping people to see the
world through the eyes of others looks
like a step in the right direction to
me. And they grew to over 200 million
users in less than four years. That's
larger than most
countries. That's the power of a
startup. As Richard Fineman said, the
worthwhile problems are the ones you can
really solve or help solve, the ones you
can really contribute something to.
Don't be discouraged by people who
dismiss your efforts as trivial just
because you aren't curing cancer or
traveling to Mars. The patterns I've
presented today are about developing an
independent mind, unburdened by the
limitations of other people's thinking.
Then you can judge for yourself whether
is worthwhile and move forward with the
conviction necessary to do something
great. A journey of a thousand miles
begins with a single step. Thank you.