Title: Lessons From Doing YC Twice - Harj Taggar
Video ID: vaRrq0qWAkQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaRrq0qWAkQ
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-02-07T17:48:25Z
Duration: PT33M33S
Views: 18340
Likes: 178
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Harj Taggar, Triplebyte, Craig Cannon, Tech, Technology, Startup
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 980

Description:
Harj Taggar is the CEO and cofounder of Triplebyte (YC S15), a marketplace for connecting software engineers with companies that are hiring. https://triplebyte.com/

Before Triplebyte Harj was a Partner at YC and cofounded Auctomatic (YC W07).

---

00:15 - Harj's intro.

1:07 - What is Triplebyte?

2:07 - Where did the idea for Triplebyte come from?

3:40 - What type of engineer are companies looking for?

6:05 - Should people go to bootcamps?

8:20 - Why did Harj do YC twice?

9:58 - What was 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Hey everyone. Uh today we have Harj
Teagar. Uh he is the CEO and co-founder
of Triple Bite and a multipletime YC
alum. So if you could just give us some
of your backstory and uh we can go from
there. Cool. Uh thanks for having me. Uh
so I first went through YC in 2007 with
my first startup automatic where we were
building uh e-commerce software to make
it easy for small businesses to sell
online. I then sort of a year and a half
later we sold that company. I spent a
year at our acquiring company and came
back to work at YC as a partner in 2010,
back when YC was effectively just Paul
and Jessica. Um, and then we sort of
grew YC. Uh, I left YC in summer 2013.
uh took a bit of time out to travel and
to work on personal projects and then
started triple bite with Guiam and Armon
who were who had also gone through YC
with social cam in 2012
and the co-founder was Michael Cyborg
who's now the CEO of Y Combinator and
the three of us kind of started
brainstorming some ideas and decided we
wanted to work on triple bite and went
through YC in summer 2015. Okay. And
what is triple bite just to clarify?
Yeah. So Trible Triple is um it's
effectively a marketplace for connecting
uh software engineers with companies
that are hiring and specifically what we
do is we put engineers through a
evaluation process that tests their
skills without using their resumes or
their backgrounds. And what that lets us
do is find really great engineers who
might not make it past the resume
screening step at a lot of companies and
conversely filter out engineers who do
have great resumes but don't actually
have great technical ability. And then
we use that data to match them with the
companies they'll be the best technical
fit for. So we can kind of tell an
engineer with a pretty high degree of
accuracy um you know they may be a
really great fit for uh Facebook,
Dropbox and like three other companies
that have a similar profile and what
they're looking for and not such a great
fit for other companies. So we can we
can help engineers sort of streamline
their job search process and just be to
companies where they have a high chance
of uh kind of doing well. And where did
that idea come from? Um, a few different
angles. So, my co-founder Armon had
originally sort of had an idea around um
recruiting and specifically technical
recruiting being broken and just felt
that um it was a really hard problem.
Each of us had experienced it at our
previous startups um like how hard it
was to hire. And I had seen I had seen
coming out of sort of working at YC that
as soon as every company raised their
seed round, the number one thing they
complained about was how difficult it
was to hire. And so um we kind of knew
it was a real problem. We experienced it
ourselves at our previous startups. Um
it started with this idea of well if we
started a recruiting firm to solve this
what would it look like? And we kind of
started thinking about things that we
found interesting about that idea. And
the specific angle was this idea of data
that if you were a recruiting company
that specialized not in spamming people
on LinkedIn but specialized in figuring
out who was a great engineer and on the
flip side figuring out what every
company was specifically looking for.
You'd have like this amazing data set um
and you could just make it efficient on
both sides. So you'd have people looking
for a company spend less time like in
wasted interviews and you'd boost the
productivity of companies because they'd
spend a lot less time interviewing
people that weren't a good fit for them.
And so how many engineers have you
placed at this point? Uh we're not
public with the numbers and stuff just
yet. Um but we've had we've had about
15,000 go through our screening process
at this point. Cool. And um I've seen
you guys put out a bunch of content and
stuff like what are the traits that
companies are looking for at this point?
Um so we started out so we when
initially when we launched actually we
were working with just YC startups um
and so we've expanded to outside of that
but we're still predominantly focused on
I'd say sort of internet software
companies and what we found is that most
of them are looking a trade that's most
in demand is kind of what we call like
the the product engineer which means
someone that's um someone that's able to
uh think about problems in terms of like
how will this like you know help our
users or grow our user base or boost
revenue as opposed to being attracted to
just um uh interesting technical
problems. Um another trait that's pretty
common actually this is like a shift
that's going on I think in the hiring
process for engineers in general is
looking for signs of coding productivity
as opposed to theoretical knowledge. So,
um, Stripe potential sort of like a a
big proponent of this where interviews
are shifting, technical interviews are
shifting increasingly towards, uh,
here's a laptop, here's like a a project
and like debug the code or like show us
you can build something in a couple of
hours as opposed to here's a whiteboard
and like here like show me how this like
algorithm would work kind of thing. So
we we're finding that actually knowing
your tools well and being able to like
productively write code during a during
an interview or just show examples of
being productive as a engineer as
opposed to having a great base of
theoretical knowledge is increasingly in
demand. And so it's not even take-home
at this point. It's literally like spend
a day build something in companies. Some
companies do do takehomes. The trade-off
with doing a take-home project is um you
have a drop in the number of people that
will go through it. So, um, specifically
often what happens is when someone
decides they want to find, uh, a new
company to work at, they'll apply to
multiple companies, right? And if you
are the one company that has a take-home
project and they have three other
companies that they'll just do an
on-site interview and get them through
the process, then a lot of engineers
will just choose not to spend the time
doing your take-home project. Oh, okay.
Conversely, it can actually help you
find really great people because a lot
of people don't perform well under a
timed interview, but are really great
smart people and they actually can do
better when you let them like work on a
take-home project when no one's watching
them and um they can actually show you
what what their like strengths are under
that. So, for sure. Cool. And so, um and
if someone were to be looking at
building that skill set, what would you
recommend? Do you recommend people go to
boot camps and do that stuff? Um so,
boot camps, this is interesting. Boot
camps are controversial because they a
lot of tech companies have got a bad
have had bad experiences with boot camp
grads and it can they can almost act as
a negative signal. What we found is that
the top like the top tier of boot camp
grads are on par if not better in
certain dimensions than the top CS
grads. Um, and spec, this is getting a
little anecdotal, but like specifically
what we tend to find is that people who
have a an engineering background, like
whether that's software engineering or
maybe it was like just a form of
engineering, but they like didn't go
into programming. they like worked as a
investment banker say. Um, boot camps
can be really great for them because
they like they teach you like the exact
tools that companies use and they teach
you kind of like how to build web
applications and you already have sort
of the general principles of engineering
as your as your base. And so you can
come out of one of those pro programs
and be like a a top tier junior
engineer. Um, but I wouldn't I mean you
wouldn't recommend a boot camp to
someone who's already been working as an
engineer for a while. Okay. And if I say
I'm a high school student, do I go to
college and study CS or do I go to a
boot camp? Um,
depends depends what you want. I mean,
this is I could like answer that in like
a number of ways. I think if you're
depends on the person, I imagine, but if
if you're optimizing for like time to
get your first job, a boot camp, there's
a strong argument for why like, you
know, a boot camp is three months of
like intense pressure. Um I I think like
the arguments for doing like a CS
program I you know apart from like just
the social aspect of going to college
and meeting people and just like kind of
developing yourself um would be not not
all companies are only building web
applications like there is there is um
there are a large number of companies
that like highly value computer science
knowledge and it does like it you know
arguably it does sort of help longer
term having like a having a more
fundamental underpinning. So, um, it's
kind of it's up to you, but it's not as
it's not as clearly obvious as maybe it
was before that getting a CS degree is
the only way into, uh, engineering
career. Fair enough. Um, so you are one
of, uh, increasingly more people now
that have done YC multiple times, and
this is one of the reasons why I wanted
to have you come in. Um, so you've done
YC twice now, uh, in addition to being a
partner for several years. Uh, why did
you decide to do YC a second time? Um
yeah, good question. So for us there
were I think there were like two there
were two big reasons. One we we really
were like very early stage with with
triple bite in that we had the idea and
sort of enthusiasm for the idea but we
didn't have a prototype or anything. Um
uh and this is this is like just over a
month out before the batch was even
going to begin, right? And so um what YC
really helped us do was it was like a
forcing function and a deadline to just
like get everything together and like be
really focused and like make sure that
we like just did the maximum amount we
could um to kind of get something out
there and launched and um that kind of
just continued throughout the batch. M
um another reason is we are you know our
product we're a marketplace but like one
side of that marketplace is technology
companies and so even though I kind of
had a strong network from YC both being
a partner and having gone through it
before um having like another like 100
or so companies that were in our batch
um and you know some of whom are going
to go on and be like huge companies like
that that's like like that just helped a
ton like I think there's a really strong
case where if you're like a B2B company
um being part of a YC batch can just
help a ton with getting your first set
of customers and feedback in a sort of
lowrisk way. And did you have any
thoughts on like how fundraising was
different the second time around? Um
there was just there was such a there
was like a an 8-year gap between me
going through YC, right? And so the
whole environment Yeah. So, so 2007 YC
really looked that that demade day was
just a group of people who were friends
with Paul and Jessica um and were mostly
there to see if there might be some cool
teams that they liked hanging out with
and wanted to like write a small amount
of money to. And as a company going
through YC, you weren't expected to
raise a big round. It was kind of like a
well if someone might if you want to
work on this as a company, that was the
decision after 3 months, right? It
wasn't it wasn't like how much money do
you want to raise? It was like, am I
going to go back to grad school or do I
continue working on this thing and like
try and build a real company around it?
Um, and so it was like a very very
different environment. And in summer 15,
that was completely rare. Like no one at
this point, it's very legit now. Yeah.
Well, by summer 15, like at this point
now, YC has like the huge successes,
right? So like Airbnb and Dropbox and
people are people are there like with
like, you know, some some people had
like moved away from their families for
the 3 months. And so it's like a it was
a real we're in this like everyone like
is there to build a really big company
um as opposed to like figuring out if
they want to start a company at all.
What was it like doing office hours for
the second time? Um it was
uh just I think the biggest difference
from the first time going through YC and
the second Y one the first time going
through YC 2007 there weren't actually
formal structured office hours. So it
was just PG and Jessica. Just PG and
Jessica. So all that happened is that
you might occasionally get an email from
them saying kind of how's everything
going and if you had something you ping
them and said like hey like can we meet
up and talk and so we actually did that
um uh when we went through YC in 2007
and so that actually that format that
actually was pretty similar to like what
one-on-one office hours look like today
like there are they are mostly just a
conversation where you bring the things
you want to talk about and you get sort
of highle advice about about them in
like you know
30 30 35 minutes. Um uh the big change
was like the group office hours like um
we didn't have that during 2007 and so
and that was actually where most of our
interaction with YC came through in the
batch was the group office hours where
you have like 10 or 12 other companies
and sort of two or three YC partners and
you kind of go around updating on what
you got done over the last couple of
weeks. Yeah. Um those were really useful
for us actually because everyone was
grouped we were grouped into um like the
other let's say like enterprisy startups
and the good thing about that was all of
us were going through kind of the same
issues where enterprise startups tend to
not have as easy to like it's not as
easy as like 10% week-on-week user
growth because you're typically trying
to get just like your first deal. And so
the metrics that you have for like work
are how many like companies have I
spoken to, how much outbound have I
done, and everyone's kind of in the same
position doing the same thing. So there
was like really useful advice that came
out of that. Like how do you best take
advantage of your time like between
meeting your batch mates and like
setting up uh relationships whether it's
a deal or otherwise.
um you hu I think during YC you skew
heavily towards the latter like you skew
heavily towards um just work obviously
right like you spend you don't actually
I don't think you and I don't even think
this is honestly the case during 2007
when there are 11 companies in that
batch the relationships I formed in 2007
um and some of those people are like
really close friends of mine like even
today like Robbie Walker is a part-time
partner at YC now um and we didn't
really get to know each other that well
during the batch cuz everyone was just
like working all the time, right? It's
more like in the time afterwards as
like, you know, we didn't like we got
thrown out of our apartment and we
didn't have a place to stay, so we ended
up staying with Robbie in his apartment
in like 2007 and like um and that still
happens today. Like during the batch,
everyone is like heads down trying to
build their thing. The relationships
tend to come um like post YC cuz then
you're all going through the same sort
of issues, right? Like you're all trying
to like hire your first person. and
you're all trying to like figure out how
do you manage like you're all trying to
figure out like like how do you scale
and grow a company together. Cool. And
then what about the um the the learnings
you took from being a partner to then
being in the batch again? Like that
that's a very unique experience. Yeah.
Um yeah, that was a unique experience I
think
to some Okay, so here's here's what I
think. Like I think during a YC batch as
like a participant, it's really really
hard to not fight the temptation to feel
competitive with everyone else in the
batch. And generally um there are always
some percentage of people in the batch
who are like talking very loudly about
like how amazing like they're just like
doing tons of revenue. They're just like
every investor is desperate to invest in
them. And um I just knew from being like
a partner for like several years that
that like those the companies that talk
the loudest during the batch doesn't
correlate with anything, right? Like
often like the really I know like you
look at like an an Instacard or
something like um like Apoo the founder
was just like really heads down building
that company. He wasn't really talking
about like what he was doing during the
batch. Um, and so I kind of knew from
like a logical and like high like
overview perspective that that stuff
really didn't matter and like there
weren't any s none of the signals about
who was doing well during a batch meant
anything. But um, and I kind of like
tried to I think like maybe help other
batch mates like just kind of understand
that. Um, but yeah, it is actually just
like emotionally it's very hard cuz like
it's like you know doing a startup is a
stressful thing and most people who
start a company have somewhat of a like
competitive like streak or a desire to
like push and like drive and be
ambitious and so you kind of can't
there's a really strong impulse to feel
like you need to be competing with other
companies in the batch which doesn't
help you in any way. Well, that's one of
the criticisms that I've seen go around
where it's like people are essentially
saying that like YC focuses on growth
growth growth during the summertime.
Yeah. Um sometimes to the detriment of
the product. Did you find that was the
case at all with you? Um I have come
across and like even some of my like
friends who are YC alumni have made that
like same argument for not doing YC
again. And I've always just found it
I've always found it somewhat nebulous.
Like I don't see I don't think that
early on there is anything to optimize
other than like growth. Like I think you
have to like pick the right metric. And
so I I agree that maybe early on like
the right metric for everyone is not
necessarily like revenue, right? Like it
may be that the right metric early on is
just like how many customers did you
like how many potential customers did
you talk to this week? And like you
should be optimizing talking like if
that's what you if that's a stage you're
at as a company where you need to like
do discovery and figure out if anyone
wants your product, then yeah, you
should like be growing the number of
people you're talking to every week,
right?
that just means you're making progress
quickly. And so I think YC focuses on
action and focus and if you have action
and focus the output of that should be a
growth rate of something. Um and so I
think I think for us for example we run
like triple is a business that is
enterprise in the sense of we generate
revenue when we place an engineer. the
average time for someone like entering
our funnel to like place and being
revenue like for us is more like sort of
like on the 6 to 8 weeks end of the
spectrum cuz people take a while to like
interview and decide what they want to
do right and so going through YC for us
I never felt pressurized in like the
wrong direction like I felt pressurized
to like why can't you speed this up like
how many engineers are you screening per
week that's ultimately like the metric
that's going to drive this longer term
and that should be going up but I didn't
feel like it was like dumb advice in the
sense of you should be growing your
revenue even though it takes you like 6
to 8 weeks to book revenue and YC is a
12-month program 12 week program right
so did you find yourself like trying to
advise the startups in your group like
midback no actually that was um uh
actually something I generally try to
avoid doing um uh actually just didn't
like again like why see like the upside
of like having a slight competitive
streak I think is it does just push you
to do more and like be really focused
and so um I I was like my head was like
entirely consumed with just like how do
we make triple bite grow as much as
possible in the next few months not like
how do I help the other companies in my
batch. Fair enough. Do you remember your
stats at the at the end of the batch?
I'm not sure. I think I'm trying to
remember. I think we were
I can't remember the exact numbers to be
honest. I think we were like probably
around I think we done maybe like 100k
in or 150k in revenue by the end of YC.
Um so like the absolute revenue numbers
look pretty good because again we're
like enterprise in the sense of a low
volume number of deals i.e. placements
but like each placement is quite
valuable which is like how enterprise
deals tend to work. Um and so kind of
coming out of YC our revenue numbers
look pretty good for an idea we'd been
working on like fulltime for 12 weeks. M
and then what about um just general
advice for people in your space like if
I'm looking to find engineers, what do
you do? Um I mean use triple bite is an
obvious thing. Okay. How do you guys
find engineers and then um that's one of
the questions and then like obviously
use triple bite if you're I mean okay so
yeah sourcing engineers like just
getting is sort of like the first
battle. Um we're we're unusual in the in
the respect that what's worked really
well for triple bite to source engineers
has actually been um a combination of
just like writing sort of blog posts and
content articles about like what we've
learned from doing all these screens. Um
and no one's really writing good quality
content about how you run a technical
interview, like how you make your
decisions, what correlates with what
companies are looking for. Um so that
that's helped us a ton. Um I actually
here's kind of like one thing I'd say.
Um, one thing that's really helped us,
our core product is effectively a
technical hiring process and we've paid
a lot of attention to making that be a
good experience for everyone that's
coming through and that's generated a
lot of word of mouth in terms of other
people say, "Oh, like this was a really
great interviewing experience. You
should try it out." I think companies
can totally do that where if you if you
take the time to give your candidates
personalized feedback on how they did
and suggest how they might improve. If
you take the time to do that, you can
generate like word of mouth um in s of
the engineering community as a good good
place to go and interview. Um other
other things I think early stage
companies should mostly focus on
referrals and trying to find people that
they've worked with in the past or they
have some signal on what they'd be like
to work with. So you would totally
totally want to if you're making a
trade-off between like aptitude and
skills and ability to work well with
someone you want to like lean towards
like the latter because you know if
there's only a few people it's okay like
you'd rather take the person you might
be slightly less skilled but you know
you will work well together over like
the person who's highly skilled but like
you would like not look forward to
coming into the office with. Right.
Yeah. And then what about if um if
you're vetting someone remotely? Do you
have any particular tips? And we
actually vet all of our candidates um
remotely through Google Hangouts. So we
this actually works really well for us.
Like you can Google Hangouts lets you
like screen share, you can let them use
we let them use their own environment.
So they effectively what they do is they
pick the language, they pick their
tools, um we give them kind of the
problems that you need to work on and
they just share their screen and so you
can get like a real insight into not
just how they solve problems but how
familiar are they and comfortable in
their own environment and you you see
them at their best. Um, and I think that
that's that actually that actually works
really well. And if anything, it like
helps remove the bias that you might
have from meeting someone in person when
you're trying to figure out like their
skills. Okay. Um, all right. So, we have
a random list of like counterpoints
against doing YC a second time. Uh, I
want to just hear your answers to some
of these. Um, okay. So, someone asked,
uh, were you ever worried that doing YC
a second time would be viewed as a sign
of weakness to a VC? Um,
no, not really. Like because I think I
had seen
I think really the only thing that
matters in fundraising is having
traction. And I just like continually
saw that like being a YC partner like
the companies that raised on the best
terms were not the companies that had
like necessarily the strongest
fundraisers as their founders. Um, it
was just like the companies that had
like the product that was doing the
best. So I cared a lot more about what's
going to what's going to give me the
optimal chances of building something
that has traction in the next 6 months.
um more so than like what's a VC going
to think about my decisions on how I run
the company. Um and so yeah, I wasn't
that wasn't something that concerned me
because I didn't if I have a product
that's growing like VCs really don't
care about all the other stuff. They
just care about that. Yeah. So do you
think that um actually your background
didn't matter all that much at all? Um
it helps like the background having a
having like previous successes having a
network these things like help get your
like foot in the door.
But honestly, I think they can also like
that can also like um put you in a bad
position where when you have like access
to capital and investors and um
investors want to base invest in you
based on like your like you know what
you've done in the past as opposed to
like what signs there are that what
you're working on now is great. You can
like easily and I've seen like there's
like a bunch of examples of this like
you can easily raise too much money
early on off the bat and like that just
like pushes you in weird directions,
right? It's just like so easy. It's so
easy for you to feel like you have a
real company because you raised like 10
million bucks and you have a VC on your
board and you hired a bunch of people,
but like a startup is just like not
really real until it has like real users
and real traction and real growth. And
so um that's that's just like the only
thing that and that's the number one
lesson I learned from being a YC partner
was just like everything else just is
fake until you have like real traction.
So do what gets you traction. I felt
that YC was going to boost our chances
of getting us traction. So, um it was
like the the right decision. That's a
really good Do you have any advice for
someone who's like a founder who maybe
who's done something successful in the
past um to just kind of like check
themselves and not go nuts? try and um
so I I think so between before um before
starting triple buy it um I so I took
like quite a while to like figure out
like what exactly was I wanted to do and
I had friends who had in similar
positions where they sold a company
before they had a strong network amongst
like the investor community and the
Silicon Valley tech community and they
get stuck for like years actually
sometimes like trying to figure out what
they want to do and the problem is that
um well one you have this network of
really smart people and smart people can
find like a hole in any idea no matter
how perfect it is. So like you
constantly seek feedback from really
smart people and um everyone pushes back
on what you're working on and so it's
like kind of hard to find something um
that you know someone doesn't have a
negative view on. And then the other
thing is you end up optimizing for um
things that sound really great at like
dinner parties and social events. Um and
so you end up on these like blue sky
vanity projects, right?
I'm going to
go
and
ultimately I think again what YC helps
with is because you have to focus on
growth. You the only way you get growth
is by solving a real problem. And so it
like gives you an environment to make
sure you're not working on something
that's made up. And it's really easy to
do that as a second time founder because
investors really want to invest in your
thing, especially early on. People want
to work for you. You have like a strong
network. So, you can just like kid
yourself into feeling that you have a
company when you just don't. And so,
stepping back from that, like preyc the
second time, how do you go about
choosing something? Cuz I Yeah, I know
tons of people like exactly like you're
talking about who just like vaguely are
around at this point. There's so many
different ways to come up with um like
what you want to work on. I I would like
to answer this in somewhat of a meta
way. I actually think the best way now
um the best way to start a company is
really not to explicitly want to start a
company. Um it's what we did and it's
working out fine for us and I think it's
a totally viable path to starting a
company. So like Drew with Dropbox for
example, he knew he wanted to start a
company before he knew what the company
was. And so he like he was trying to
like he'd set himself these like
frameworks for like what are the things
that are important to me in the idea
that I work on and he set those up
front. He was like, I want something
that's got a clear business model. I got
I want something that, you know, is like
a hard technical product cuz I like
working on hard technical problems. Um,
and like out of that fra through those
lenses, he like assessed all the ideas
he came up with and Dropbox was the one
that like met all the the requirements.
He was like, "Okay, I'm going to work on
this." And so that's kind of what we did
with Triple B. like we wanted something
that we had personal experience with the
problem, had a clear business model and
we felt that we had like a clear
strategy on like what would be unique on
the distribution side to get started. So
like that's how we went about it. We
like what are the criteria that are
important enough for us in idea? Let's
filter all of our ideas against those
and when we find one that's a match on
everything like we should just go ahead
and do it.
I think the better way honestly though
is to not be explicitly trying to start
a company is to like think about what
are just like areas or problems in the
world that I think are like interesting
and build really deep domain expertise.
So for example, let's just say you
decide you do want to cure cancer which
is like would be a huge benefit to
society. Um I don't think the way you go
about that is like what startup could I
start to kill cancer, right? I think
it's like I think it's like okay well
like do I understand biology well enough
to make a first pass at this? No. Okay,
well then should I go and invest a year
or two in like going to grad school and
studying biology or should I make
friends with someone who's already got a
PhD in biology and learn as much as I
can from them and maybe they will start
a company with me like once I kind of
understand the space well. But um I
think that like building deep domain
expertise in an area and then going into
like uh a startup is a is a better way
to do it. And so say you were to do that
and like basically people around the
valley at a certain point will know your
name, right? So you have this
interesting thing that happens like
people just try and like jump on the
party bus or whatever. Um how do you go
about like finding new co-founders,
building a new network at that point and
vetting people. Um
you
yeah it's there there's like no right or
wrong way to do this again but I think
okay ter terms of finding co-founders
you you again want to lower the bar in
the sense of you will just never find
like I mean somewhat analogy to like
just dating and marriage potentially
like you you're never going to find like
the absolute perfect person across like
every like criteria. So, um I know I
don't think there's any secret to this.
Like again, like ideally the best way to
find a co-founder is not to really be
explicitly looking for a co-founder.
It's just to have like a group of
friends that you would start a company
with. Um okay, taking a step back, I
remember at startup school a few years
ago, Phil um Libin, the Evernote
founder. Um he he sort of said this in a
somewhat funny way, but I think it's
practical advice where he was say he
claimed he was strategic over the last
decade about everyone he made friends
with, he'd only make friends with
someone that was a potential co-founder.
I don't I think he was like I don't
think that's actually like practically I
don't think either you should do that or
that's probably what he did but um that
is the best way to find co-founders is
to be working at working on a problem
somewhere that you'd have close contact
to people who have skills that are
complimentary to yours and just being
like building
friendships with them over a period of
time as opposed to be trying to like
explicitly find co-founders. But if you
are in that position then I think you
honestly you run it as just like a a
funnel like you like run you like go out
and meet as many people as you possibly
can. You like make a first you make your
best guess at like how many of these
would I like to try working on a project
with? Um and then of those how many
would I like you know seriously consider
trying to like focus on just like one
single project. Like how do we go from
like dating multiple people to like just
being exclusive and then seeing like how
it how it goes from there. Projects.
Yeah. Basically, I just think you do you
run it as a process. Oh, yeah. No,
absolutely. I find that that's by far
the easiest way. Just simple projects
start from there. Um, okay. Kind of a
random question then. You uh took a sort
of sbatical between being a partner at
YC and doing triple bite. Yeah. How was
that experience? And did you go into it
thinking like you were going to come out
with a revelation of sorts or or what?
Why did you do it? Yeah, possibly
somewhat. I think um I I had two big
motivations for wanting to just like
take I guess a sbatical school and do
travel in particular. One is I'd always
wanted to take a year out between uh
finishing high school and starting
college to do a gap year, which I I
don't know if that's American term, but
in England it's a I think people know
what it is. Um uh and I actually like
started planning where I would go and
what I would do. Um but like but I just
knew my parents were going to be so like
um annoyed with me if I did it. And so
um I like I I actually yeah I didn't I
went straight into college. Um and so I
kind of always had a bit of this regret
of I never like did like the backpacking
travel experience and I figured that
like the older I got like the less
likely that was to ever happen. So I
kind of always knew I wanted to do that
at some point. So leaving YC seemed like
a that seemed like a good time to do it
because doing a startup doesn't isn't
like the best optimization for having
long uninterrupted periods of time to
travel. Um, and so, and then the other
reason was YC was like a great vantage
point into everything that's going on,
but in in terms of like finding
something to focus and you to like work
on can be a little bit of information
overload. So, I kind of just like
actually wanted to take a step back and
get away from tech and startups and
thinking about startup ideas and knowing
what everyone else was working on
because when you realize one one thing
that like being an investor maybe and
being a YC partner in particular gives
you is a realization into just how many
people there are in the world working on
startups and how and how like no idea is
unique, right? So, I would find myself
like I would find myself like this with
like friends who were looking for
startup ideas, right? They said, "Oh, I
want to start like a digital loyalty
card." And I'd be like, "Oh, well, you
know, there's like that's a really great
idea. That's a really interesting idea,
but there's like 20 other company. I
just read 20 YC applications for this
exact same idea, right?" And so, I think
to some extent when trying to start a
company, um, like ignorance is bliss.
And this is partly the reason why
first-time founders often have so much
success, right? Is they're just
completely unaware of how difficult what
they're doing is and how many other
people there are working on the exact
same problem and they just don't care
and go ahead and do it anyway. And so um
I like the experience of just being
removed from tech and startups um and
just kind of doing something I'd always
like had as a life goal or dream um was
just like you know just was good for me
like personally. H and did you come back
with any particular revelation? Uh no I
think that was that was probably the
disappointing like I was the same way
when I traveled and I was like all right
I guess I'm back. Yeah, there's there's
definitely like that there's definitely
that sort of like you know, you read
enough articles on the internet about
like how traveling solo like changed
your life and like I'm glad I did it and
it was a useful experience, but it
wasn't like I had like deep meaningful
revelations about like who I am that I
didn't realize before. Cool. All right,
man. This has been great. Thanks for
coming in. Awesome. Thanks for having
me.