Title: YC's Head of Design Shows You How To Design With AI
Video ID: VbqaL_eHhKY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VbqaL_eHhKY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-10T14:00:10Z
Duration: PT30M54S
Views: 97553
Likes: 2451
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 867

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Today I am excited to welcome back E
Bufar, the head of design at YC to talk
about some of the really cool projects
she's been working on and the design
process behind them. So E, thanks so
much for joining.
>> Thank you so much for having me.
>> So start off, tell us about some of the
tools that you've been using because I
know that they're very different from
the tools that you were using over the
last 6 to 12 months. Yeah. So, I find
myself almost exclusively nowadays in
conductor and paper design. That's all I
need usually to make a full project end
to end. And when it comes to finding
inspiration for projects, especially
like visual inspiration, I always go
back to Pinterest and create maybe a
little mood book for myself or put
together a few images for the look and
feel that I want for a project. But all
in all, it's almost entirely in
conductor that I live.
>> Very cool. And um another interesting
thing about the way that you work is you
don't actually type,
>> right? I do not type. I realize that I
think a lot faster than I type. I type
very slowly. And so I'd rather talk to
my computer instead of I barely touch my
computer at this point. I just press the
function key and I give a stream of
consciousness of the feature that I want
to build and it just does it and it
feels really magical. And to do this, I
use Aqua, which is a YC company that
allows me to just talk to my computer
and captures everything.
>> So, there's a couple projects that we
want to walk through today. Um, we're
going to go through Paxel. We're going
to go through Sodazine and Startup
School.
>> Yes.
>> And so, maybe to start um let's let's
walk through uh the Paxel project which
we just launched recently.
>> Maybe you can tell us a little bit about
what is Paxel, what were some of the
goals behind it, and then walk us
through your process for how you
actually designed uh the site and the
product. The goal behind Paxel is an
experiment that we're trying out and our
goal is to try to understand how people
code with coding agents. Nowadays things
are changing very quickly and people are
experimenting in their own ways with
coding agents and they're developing
tricks for themselves and they're
creating skills also for themselves and
it still very much feels like a black
box. We don't understand how our peers
are coding with with coding agents. And
so Axel was a way for us to understand
how the world codes nowadays. What are
the tricks and insights um and key
takeaways that we can learn from people
and share this knowledge with everyone
else?
>> Yeah. And I love also that the product
gives feedback, tells you your biggest
crash out when you were when you were
coding, [laughter] right?
>> Yes. The main thing that we wanted to do
with Paxel is to make it fun. We wanted
to make it fun for someone to understand
their patterns, how they code, and how
other people code eventually. And the
first version of Paxel is still very
much single player mode uh because we
haven't collected uh many transcripts
yet. But as we collect more and more, we
can tell you how your patterns compare
to other builders out there. And we were
heavily inspired by how Spotify made
Spotify wrapped
>> and how we can make Spotify wrapped for
your coding sessions.
>> And so that's that's what inspired the
playfulness of the cards. We interviewed
some people in the office and we asked
them, "What are the things that you'd
like to learn from your from from your
coding transcripts?" And one thing Jared
Freriedman, one of the partners at YC,
one of the ideas he had was, "I would
love to know my biggest crash out. I
would love to know when I was the most
uh frustrated with my agent and what I
said." And so that's one of the prompts
or one of the cards that we that we also
show to people when they upload their
transcripts.
>> And so walk us through how the product
works. So, how Paxel works is you simply
run a command in the terminal and it's
going to pull transcripts and it's going
to read all your codecs cla um and
cursor transcripts and going to return
fun facts about you. And some of them
could be, oh, you really love one model
more than another or most of your
commits are submitted in the middle of
the night or do you use plan mode or
not? What is the most common prompt that
you that you go for or reach for? Tell
me how you built the site here to to
show that off and uh explain to people
how it can be used.
>> What I really wanted to do here is to be
really explicit to people who will who
will be landing on this page what our
motivation was. I really wanted to be
upfront with the fact that this is an
experiment that we're running. We're
trying to understand how the world codes
and that's why it feels maybe a little
bit unusual to see so much text on a
landing page, but assuming that people
are coming into this product to
understand what it does, we wanted to I
wanted to put it like very front and
center as you load the page. That's what
motivated the the cards, the interact
interactive cards here that you can
hover over and you have some movement
and and micro interactions when you
hover over them. that also inspired the
feel of this page. And another thing is
I wanted to have a consistent uh visual
language throughout the site and I
wanted to experiment with some shaders
and we love paper shaders, the shaders
that are made by paper.design
and I really love their dithering shader
and so I asked Claude to implement it.
These are the paper shaders. They're
amazing. They're free and they are
usable via cloud code. image dithering.
That's the one that I use and I just
asked Claude to use it. And I really
wanted to fine-tune the feel of the
dithering effect. And so I built for
myself a little modal here where I could
really really fine-tune
the feel and all the parameters of the
dithering effect to really get the feel
that I wanted. Um, and I even made this
model
public. And so if you load the page on
your desktop, you can also experiment
and have fun with the modal. But that's
usually that's a pattern that we saw
ourselves going back to as we build
websites, you and I, is building modals
for ourselves so that we can fine-tune
small details and really make it
perfect. This is a a common trend that
I've been seeing a lot is rather than
generating something having the static
images having that, you know, be the the
edges of the page and and the graphics
on the card, you actually just make it
alive and give yourself a custom tool to
be able to to turn knobs and dials to
get it exactly how you want it. We
realized that it's almost like a muscle
that you need to build and train when
you realize that you can build anything
for yourself whenever you want to
fine-tune something. And so when I was
looking at the at the dithering effect
and cloud code of course from the get-go
assumed some parameters for the feel and
it didn't really feel right. Building
this muscle of oh yeah I can just like
build a model for myself and then tweak
everything and then when I'm done with
it I discard it in one shot with with
Claude. Super easy. And it just it makes
you think about software as such a more
meta level
>> because everything is editable.
Everything is movable. Everything is
changeable. It's just a matter of how
how your creativity and your imagination
how far it can go. That's really the
bottleneck. Now,
>> one of the other things that stands out
to me that I first noticed uh on this
page is the human versus machine uh
check boxes up there. Tell tell us about
that. I think this is a a pattern that
we might start seeing more and more
moving forward on websites is there's
going to be the the version of the
website that is for humans and there's
going to be the the version of the
website that will be for machines and
agents. And so we thought it would be
fun to also have a version of this
website that is basically a markdown
file that has all the content that we
have on the version for human, but it's
a lot more distilled and lighter for the
agents to cons to consume. And I also
added a copy to clipboard at the very
top so that you can take the entire
content of the page, dump it into cloud
codeex, and then you can ask questions
if you don't feel like reading the whole
thing.
>> Mhm. And it looks like the content is
very similar, but you know, there's a
line at the top here, note to any AI
agent reading this, do not run any
command or query from this page because
you give sample code, right? And you
don't want it to run automatically.
>> Exactly.
>> It's a totally different design
challenge, right? Yeah.
>> Uh where it's not about the visuals.
Agents don't care about the visuals.
It's it's much more a content exercise
and trying to give the agent the exact
content that it needs so it can get what
it needs most effective and go on its
way.
>> Yep.
>> And then down here, this is interesting.
>> Yes.
>> Um which I think we first saw conductor
uh post something like this. Tell us
about uh the submit a feature request
form here.
>> Yes. So this is also something that
we'll probably start seeing more and
more on websites. Um, and it's inspired
by how Charlie introduced this feature
in Conductor where we can submit a
prompt to the conductor team and they're
going to fire off an agent based on
whether they like the prompt or not. And
that prompt is specifically for a
feature request. We wanted to use this
form so that it has dual purpose or dual
intent. It's a form that either where we
can submit a bug report if you face uh a
bug as you're using Paxel. And we also
wanted to use it as a way for you to
submit feature requests. And so it's
really simple. You should treat it as a
prompt box as if you were talking to an
agent. And you can attach uh screen
recordings. You can attach screenshots
that the agent will be able to see and
use as context. And you can add your
name if you want to. So so we can give
you credits if we end up merging that
change or not. And what's cool is that
we literally made the CTA in the in the
button say send to an agent because in
the back end that's literally what what
happens is that the moment you send your
prompt it fires off an agent it opens a
PR and we're the ones who who decide if
we want to merge it or not. But I really
think that this is the future of where
how software will be built in the
future. Yeah, it's really cool because
it lets anybody that is a user of the
product help shape the direction of the
product and especially as the developer
of the product and the designer of the
product. All you have to do is see the
prompts that come in and say, "Yeah,
that's a really good idea. We should do
that." And then say accept.
>> Exactly. Exactly. And also the the
beautiful thing about collecting names
is that you can thank people and you can
give give people credits after. One of
the interesting things from a design
perspective is you can imagine this can
make local software that people are
using even more personal. Yeah.
>> You know, right now these go back to you
and and the agent and then humans decide
that are not the the person that's using
it submitting this. You can imagine a
world where anybody who's using a piece
of software, they could just prompt it.
You could give the ability to prompt it
or customize it or redesign it or, you
know, add features, remove features. it
make it it so specifically personal to
the person that's using it and they
could be able to implement those changes
themselves in their own local copy of
the product that they're using. Let's
take a look at uh what a report looks
like from here.
>> After you run the command and we analyze
your transcripts, we give you a report
that lands in your inbox and is going to
give you some fun facts about how you
code in the form of these fun cards.
And if you scroll down a little bit, you
also get a more detailed view uh into
your your patterns and the way you make
decisions um and also potentially some
what are your strengths and some growth
areas that you can focus on. And again,
as we get more and more and more
transcripts, we're going to be able to
give you a lot more insights into how
you do special things and how you are
different from other people and how you
compare to other people, which I think
will be incredibly valuable long term. I
think at a higher level, Paxel
is our way to shed light into something
that is very obstructed right now. Like
coding transcripts leave very live very
deeply in your machine and they're
really hard to pull if you most people
are probably not aware that they are on
their machine. Like they they don't even
know that really transcripts exist and
that they can do things with them. And
so Paxel is our way to put them at the
surface and allow people to understand
from their patterns because otherwise
it's it's hard to know that you can
actually analyze them or that you can do
things with them.
>> Yeah, there's a lot to learn and there's
a lot of valuable feedback you can get
from it about I mean this is what it is
to be a developer. this is how a lot of
design work is happening these days and
um there's a lot that can be learned
from feedback on how you were doing it
especially because it's so new. Um
everyone's trying to figure things out
and so I think by analyzing a lot of
these different transcripts and being
able to give feedback it helps everybody
level up.
>> Yep.
>> YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> Awesome. Let's take a look at another
project that you've been working on
recently. Uh, what is Sodazine?
>> Soda stands for state-of-the-art and the
idea came from Gary actually where he
wanted to celebrate San Francisco. And
so we wanted to work on this really fun
project where we would work with
different artists and writers in the
city and celebrate San Francisco.
>> Maybe first uh talk through how you
designed the actual zen and then we can
talk about the website because I I know
you have some really interesting uh
process that you use to to build that.
>> Yes. So when we say zen, it's a literal
physical zen. What's interesting is that
specifically for the zen and the graphic
design, the cover art and also some some
art that is inside
We intentionally wanted to go for
something that had no AI involvement. We
decided to go back to how we did it a
few years ago and it was in Illustrator.
And these pieces of art, you can tell
the second you look at them, they are
highly intentional and highly detailed.
And you can tell that someone spent
months working on this.
>> Okay. So, you started with the physical
zen.
>> Yes. And then you you transitioned to
making a website to show this off and
and talk about um what your goals were
with building this and the process that
you went about to actually make it come
to life.
>> What's great is that for every single
meeting that we had about the Zen, we
recorded every single one and I dumped
the transcripts into a soul.md
>> file specifically for that project. And
I wanted to treat that soul.md file as
the source of truth and exhaustive
glossery of this project. I wanted this
file to have as much context as possly
possible so that it can feed all the
future decisions that we need to make
regarding this project. It's interesting
because there's probably a lot of people
that are watching and their process is,
you know, maybe they're doing client
work, maybe they're working on an
internal project and they're meeting
with a bunch of, you know, stakeholders,
maybe they're designing their own
website. Um, and they're thinking it
through
>> and and they would probably come out of
that and they would jot down some notes
and some highle takeaways and you're
saying like, "No, you shouldn't do that.
Instead, just record everything and just
dump it all in a soul.md file and then
use that as the basis for everywhere
that you want to go afterwards.
>> Exactly. I really think that's the
that's the future. And we also wrote a
manifesto for ourselves when we were
working on this project. And of course,
we dumped that manifesto into the
soul.md. As much context that we can
give the agent, the better.
>> Can you show that soul.mmd file?
>> Yes. This is what it looks like. It is
nothing more than a um a simple MD file
and it has all the context and you can
also break down MD files. You can create
a hierarchy of the different MD files
that you want. If you want to have like
a design MD file specifically for your
design and how to address design you can
have a separate MD for your manifesto.
You have can have a in our case we could
have had a different MD for the written
content content in the zen. Mhm.
>> Um, you can dump it all in one single
file. I haven't really seen one method
being better than the other, but that's
why we're all experimenting and figuring
out if there's a better way. Overall, I
think capturing as much information as
possible and share that information with
your agent is the best way to build
software moving forward.
>> What were your next steps?
>> I wanted to experiment and I wanted to
do very fast iteration and see multiple
possible versions of what the the
website could look like. And so I
started in Pinterest with a mood board.
I created a mood board with a few images
that I really liked. This was sort of
the vibe that I wanted to go for.
Something very rudimentary, black and
white. And again, this was based on all
the conversations that I've had with my
colleagues and my friends that I was
working on this project with. And so I
started there. And then my first
reaction was looking at this mood board
is I wish I could just generate many
many versions, one shoted websites based
on this mood board
>> really simply. And so I downloaded a
bunch of these um images and I fed them
into Claude and I asked Claude, "Okay,
you know the vibe that I'm going for.
You know the content that I want to show
on the website. Here's the visual
direction that I would love for you to
draw inspiration from." and then oneshot
a cool website based on that. I asked it
to do that 16 different times. I built a
glossery for myself going back to
training this muscle of we can build
anything for ourselves now. I wanted to
build for myself really easy way to
navigate through all the iterations that
I'm building for myself. And so building
a single page here that has this
collection of all the iterations that
I'm playing with was just a really easy
way. And as I started looking at them, I
wanted an a way for me to bookmark the
ones that I really liked. And so I
oneshotted this feature that allows me
to, you know, pin the ones that I like
so that they automatically show at the
top and I don't lose lose tracks of the
one that I really like.
>> Yeah. And so, okay, so to be clear, this
is not a page that's publicly accessible
on the website. This is a glossery that
you have made for yourself. Yes. To be
able to oneshot a bunch of different
ideas for how to design the overall site
>> to explore yourself using real content,
>> real design direction based off of those
images that you found on Pinterest. Yes.
>> Um and then create a bookmark system. So
this is another great example of
disposable design. Yes.
>> Where you can just whip this up really
quickly, jump through a bunch of
different iterations, and go, I don't
like that. I don't like that. Oh, I I do
like that. Oh, let's take this piece
from this one and put it all together.
And it makes it happen so much faster.
Yes.
>> Show us some of the iterations that you
put together here.
>> As part of the sold at MD, I made sure
to include the names of the different
articles that we have in the Zen. And
that was one of the main things that I
wanted to highlight and show on at least
the first version of the website that I
had in mind. And again, because it's
oneshotted,
you don't expect like an incredibly high
level of craft. you're just using this
as an exploration tool. So getting a
feel of okay do I want to lay out all
the all the titles of the articles like
this or that that was another really
cool exploration that I loved which is
there's so many things so many cool
things going on here cool font um there
was the date of the party that we threw
the launch party that we threw for the
zen that was included in there because
it was also part of the soldm that is a
beautiful thing when you realize when
you unlock so much information for your
agent your agent knows so much that when
you're going to give it full reign and
full you're going to unleash it to make
iterations for you, it's going to
surprise you.
>> It's going to include things that you
would not have otherwise thought of. And
that was almost like an AGI moment
>> for us when we realized that
>> wow it can see things ahead of us and it
can really help us brainstorm even and
come up with like really really original
ideas. And so that was a really nice um
surprise here. It's just like
organically included the time of the
party that we were hosting.
>> Also, the the fact that it's a Zen and
so it added this uh code bar, this
barcode,
>> uh assuming that it's like a physical
one that you can purchase in different
um in different uh currency was also
really cool. One thing that I wanted to
experiment with is what if we had an
actual map of San Francisco, an
interactive map of San Francisco and it
included this version where
>> Oh, wow. Yes. Where you it uh it reveals
a map of San Francisco that is
interactive and you can move around in
the city and that is like fully living
behind the oneshotted iteration that it
built. So just like marvelous things and
I think these sorts of levels of design
oneshotable designs can only be achieved
if you have a very detailed and and
intentional design on MD or sold in MD.
You need to shepherd your agent to tell
it exactly the vibe that you want to go
for. If you can include screenshots,
also if you can include a mood board, as
much information as you can feed your
agent so that it really understands what
you want and then it's going to surprise
you in the most beautiful ways.
>> Yeah. I think a lot of people use Claude
or they use codeex and they tell it to
design something and they feel like it
they get generic design back and this is
how to break that.
>> Yes.
>> Which is really interesting
>> and it's really easy. You just have to
pull Pinterest or even like Google image
and you find or even websites that you
really like really websites that you
really like
>> and start bookmarking them and
eventually use them. Give them to your
agent and say this is something that I
really like. And sometimes you love a
website and you don't even know why you
love a website. But it's okay. You don't
need to understand why you love a
website. Just give it to the agent. The
agent will analyze it for you. It's
going to understand eventually your
patterns and the commonality between all
the websites that you like. It can tell
you, oh, that's actually the things that
you seem to like across many websites.
This is another exploration that I
really loved. Again, displaying the
title of all the articles. And there are
really cool hover effects.
>> Oh, wow.
>> That it created as you're exploring the
different articles. And so for each
article, it pulled
>> really cool visuals. And you're at a
point where you don't even know how club
does does these things. It just it
scrapes the web, it browses the web, it
finds cool pictures, animations, and
it's going to surface them like this.
And if there are some things that you
want to fine-tune, you can just, you
know, speak via Aqua and ask it to
change things, change the color of
things, change the feel of things. And
it's just this incredibly fast and
rewarding feedback loop that you have
with your agent.
>> Yeah, it's amazing.
>> So, now we can talk about where we ended
up is this fully interactive map of San
Francisco. We thought, how fun would it
be to build a map where people can drop
pins and small stories of things that
they've come across in San Francisco or
like encounters or like delightful
memories that they have of small moments
in the city. And so we thought, let's
make it fully anonymous. People can
share memories and the only thing that
they need to do is pin a location or
like pick a location and then tell us
what happened at that location. And
what's beautiful is that it allows
people to share things that are very
surprising and beautiful and intimate
and introspective. Here we built this
this fun little way to consume or like
read through all these submissions. And
it's again a way for us to go back to
the core essence of this project which
is how can we understand how people are
experiencing San Francisco and what are
the like magical small moments that we
can all sort of learn from. We also
build this little entry point for we
built posters digital posters for the
party that we threw the launch party
that we threw. There's also a substack
that we created for this zen and we
added this fun little entry point where
you get redirected to this to the
substack and then you can read the
different articles. You can share a
noticing or you can share a submission
that you really like. So let's say this
one I really like it. I want to send it
to my friend. I can just click share. It
downloads it as a PNG and it outputs
this and it gives you the cardinal
coordinates of the location that was uh
tied to this story and you can share
this with your friends and you also know
the street that it's in or that it's on.
>> So, we're actually putting on startup
school at the Chase Center here in San
Francisco and you did a lot of really
cool work to help support that. I would
love for you to show off some of the
shaders that you created and some of the
uh content that has been shared on
social media and other platforms to help
um bring attention to the event.
>> Yes, we're all preparing for Startup
School, which is our biggest event of
the year. It's going to be, as you said,
at Chase Center. We're going to have
more than 6,000 people coming from all
corners of the world to experience SF
and what it means to build with AI and
have like this incredible sense of
community of we're all building
together. And we were able to have an
amazing speaker lineup this year. We
have phenomenal names coming. We have
Jensen, we have Sam, Sam Sam Oldman, we
have Alexander Wang, we have Jeff Dean,
and so many others. And we wanted a
really cool way to share that lineup
with the world. And when we were
thinking more broadly about the design
behind this event, we wanted to make it
feel really Y, but more like a variation
of YC. And so we experimented with of
course orange but gradients of orange
and we discovered the paper shaders and
we thought maybe it would be a cool way
for us to experiment with paper shaders.
My first intuition when I thought about
building visual
assets for how we're going to share
these speaker cards on on social media.
I I've initially started in Figma
actually. I I've initially dropped um
some of the images that we got from our
speakers and I started making it myself
moving things around and I noticed well
we're going to have many speakers and I
don't want to move things around 12
times and so I thought it would probably
be just simpler to ask Claude to make a
template for myself and it can even like
pull images for me from my inbox and do
everything for me so that it feels as
light as possible and I can also have an
easier time experiment with the visual
feel of the cards. And so I built this
tool for myself. It's a very simple tool
where we have the names of all of the
speakers that are confirmed.
And
it just automatically generated all of
the all of these as we kept having more
and more names of speakers confirmed.
And I also built a way for myself to
experiment with different ways to lay
out the the text on these on these
cards. And we ended up going for this
one. But it was fun to really easily
almost one shot in different iteration
>> of layout for each of these cards. And
these are like compatible across the
board. And for the shaders, well, we use
the the movement that comes from one of
the uh shaders made by paper.design
and we fine-tune the graininess here and
the edges and the rotation,
the scale
um like this. And I had a lot of fun
really finding the variation of the
shader that I wanted. And so I can just
refresh and it resets. But that was also
a very helpful sort of mini tool that I
built for myself. Um, and another thing
is I wanted to because I wanted to keep
the really cool movement that is
happening behind, I needed to do a
screen recording to maximize the
resolution of the card. And so I built
this little screen recording tool for
myself that tells me exactly when I need
to start the recording
and when I need to stop. And the reason
I built this tool is because I really
wanted it to feel like a loop, a perfect
loop, so that when we post it on Twitter
and on Instagram, it loops very very
smoothly and it feels like a like an
endless sort of movement. And so I asked
Claude to build this specific tool that
gives me like this 4se secondond like
perfectly
designed loop so that it starts and end
at the exact same pixel that it feels
really smooth. We thought it would be
really magical if people received a
ticket
>> uh when they get their acceptance. And
so we designed this ticket reusing the
shader that we're using for all the
other visual assets that we have for
startup school. This time we would apply
it against a a ticket and we would try
to make it as personalized as possible.
So, we render your name and we render
the city that you're from and then some
information about the about the event.
And it's been such a delight to see
people share them on social media
>> and say that they are excited about
coming to SF and experience SF sometimes
for the first time.
>> Yeah. Could you imagine a year ago
trying to build something like this? It
wouldn't be worth it. these shaders.
Building these shaders a year ago would
have been like would have felt like this
insurmountable mountain of I would not
even have known where to start
>> to build these things. And now it is
just this thing that Claude, my claude
knows what to pull cuz it it knows that
I love paper. It knows that I love their
shaders and it's just automatically
knows how to pull that all that
information from their website and it
uses it. It's just really magical. It's
really cool to see this and it feels
like so much time and thought and
attention and care went into designing
the experience from the moment that you
get accepted until all the way through
when you show up to the event and see
the amazing lineup there.
>> Yes. Yes. And it's also it's going to be
amazing to keep building more of the
branding of Startup School with Claude
and Codeex and like coding agents. It is
such a different paradigm as to how we
even do branding design moving forward.
the fact that we will be able to use
that same shader with the same
parameters on the massive screens that
we're going to have throughout Chase
Center and keep it incredibly consistent
through and through. It's amazing. Like
I'm really really excited about this and
it's just easier than ever to make
things more consistent and use coding
agents for absolutely everything.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Ev, thank you so much for
joining and and showing us the behind
the scenes of how you've done some of
this incredible work. um things that I
think are really pushing the boundaries
forward that uh are ways that are going
to be super common for how designers are
designing in the future, but not a lot
of people I think have figured out yet.
So, I really appreciate you sharing that
process.
>> Thank you. We're we're all figuring it
out together and we're having a lot of
fun doing so.
>> That does it for this episode of Design
Review. We'll see you on the next one.
>> [music]