Title: Growth with Alex Schultz (How to Start a Startup 2014: Lecture 6)
Video ID: vJqlG5ytLDs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vJqlG5ytLDs
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-03-23T19:41:50Z
Duration: PT47M33S
Views: 34162
Likes: 443
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Startup, Lecture, Stanford, Class, Sam Altman, How to start a startup, startup school, advice, alex schultz
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1371

Description:
Lecture Transcript: http://www.tech.genius.com/Alex-schultz-lecture-6-growth-annotated

Alex Schultz gives an overview of Growth for startups, speaking from a position of authority as the VP of Growth at Facebook.

View the readings Alex refers to, his slide deck, at http://www.startupclass.samaltman.com/courses/lec06

Discuss this lecture: http://www.startupclass.co/courses/how-to-start-a-startup/lectures/64035

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Thank you. Oversold. Thank you. Um,
cool. So, you guys, uh, this is awesome.
I've been watching the lectures in this
course. Isn't it absolutely amazing the
content? And now you're stuck with me
today. We'll see how that goes. Um, so,
uh, unlike Paul when he was talking in
the Q&A and and you guys asked him what
he'd do if he was at college today and
he said physics, I actually indulged
myself. I went and I went and did
physics. Did physics at at Cambridge.
And I think physics is an amazing class
to give you transferable skills that are
really useful in other areas. But I
guess that's not uh that's not why
you're listening to me today. Like
physics isn't the class. Like so I paid
for college doing online marketing,
directors marketing. I started with SEO
in the 1990s. I created a paper airplane
site. I had a monopoly in the uh small
niche market of paper airplanes globally
which you know when you want to start a
startup also see how big the market
could be in the long term. It wasn't
great. But what that taught me was how
to do SEO. And back in those days, it
was Out of Vista. And the way to do SEO
was to have white text on a white
background five pages below the fold.
And you would rank top of Outer Vista if
you just said paper airplanes 20 or 30
times in that text. And that was how you
won at SEO in the 1990s. Like it was a
really easy easy skill to learn. Um when
I went to college being a physicist, I
thought paper airplanes would make me
cool. And I was actually the most nerdy
person in the physics class. So I
created a cocktail site which was how I
learned to to program. and that grew to
be largest cocktail site in the UK. Um,
and that really got me into SEO properly
when Google launched. So with Google,
you had to worry about page rank and you
had to worry about getting links back to
your site, which basically at that stage
meant one link from the Yahoo directory
got you to the top listing in Google if
you had white text on a white background
below the fold as well. Um, when Google
launched AdWords, that's when I really
started to learn how to do online
marketing. And that was buying paid
clicks from Google and reselling them to
eBay for a small margin uh, of like 20%
um, using their affiliate program. And
that was what really kicked me into
Overdrive into doing what everyone
nowadays talks about as growth or growth
hacking or growth marketing. And in my
mind, it's just internet marketing. Uh,
using whatever channel you can to get
whatever output you want. And that's how
I paid for college and how I ended up
going from being a physicist to a
marketer and transitioning to the dark
side of the force.
So what do you think matters most for
growth? You've had loads of lectures and
people have said it over and over. So
what do you guys think matters most for
growth?
Someone give me an answer. Great
product. Great product. I agree. Great
product. What does great product lead
to? Customers. Customers. And what do
you need those customers to do?
Spread the word. Someone said stay on
your site. Someone said that. That's it.
Retention. Retention is the single most
important thing for growth. Now, we have
an awesome growth team at Facebook and
I'm super proud to work on it. But the
truth of the matter is we have a
fantastic product. Getting to work on
growth at Facebook is a massive
privilege because we're promoting
something that everyone in the world
really wants to use, which is absolutely
incredible. If we can get people on and
get them ramped up, they stick on
Facebook.
so many times like I've advised multiple
startups my favorite was working with
Airbnb but I've worked with Corsera I've
worked with other ones that haven't done
as well as those guys but the one thing
that is true over and over and over
again is if you look at this curve
percent monthly active versus number of
days from acquisition if you end up with
a retention curve that asmmptotes to a
line parallel to the x-axis you have a
viable business and you have product
market fit for some subset of market,
but most of the companies that you see
fly up who talk about growth hacking and
virality and all of this other stuff.
I'm going to try so hard not to swear,
but uh it'll happen. Um
their retention curve slopes down
towards the x-axis and in the end
intercepts the x-axis.
Now, when I show this chart to most
people, they say that's all well and
good. you had a million people a day in
terms of growth when you started uh the
growth team at Facebook or you were at
50 million users. You had a lot of
people joining the site. So you had a
ton of data to do this. We used the same
methodology for our B2B growth getting
people to sign up as self-service
advertisers. We used this analysis to
understand how much growth we were going
to have in that market as well. And in
that place when I joined Facebook, the
product was 3 days old. And within 90
days of the product launching, we were
able to use this technique to be able to
figure out what the one-year value of an
advertiser was. And we predicted it for
a the first year to 97% of what the
number turned out to be. So I think it's
very important to look at your retention
curve. And this is how we did it.
If you see here, this red line is number
of users who have been on your product
for a certain number of days. So, a
bunch of people, that should say zero,
but a bunch of people will have been on
the product, all of your users will have
been on it at least one day, but if your
product's been around a year or
whatever, you will have zero users
who've been on it 366 days. Make sense?
That curves sensible? Cool. So, what you
then do is look for all of your users
who have been on your product one day.
What percentage of them are monthly
active? 100% for the first 30 days,
obviously, because monthly active, they
all signed up on one day. But then you
look at 31. Every single user on their
31st day after registration, what
percentage of them were monthly active?
32nd day, 33rd day, 34th day. And that
allows you with only something like
10,000 customers or whatever to get a
real idea of what this curve is going to
look like for your product. And you're
going to be able to tell does it
asmtote? And it'll get noisy out towards
the right hand side. Like I'm not using
real data. It'll get noisy out towards
the right hand side, but you'll be able
to get a handle on does this curve
flatten out or does it not? If it
doesn't flatten out, don't go and do
growth tactics. Don't go and do
virality. Don't hire a growth hacker.
Focus on getting product market fit
because in the end, as Sam said at the
beginning of this course, idea, product,
team execution. If you don't have a
great product, there's no point
executing well on growing it because it
won't grow. Number one problem I've seen
inside Facebook for new products. Number
one problem I've seen for a startups
I've advised has been they don't
actually have product market fit when
they think they do.
So the next obvious question that people
ask over and over and over again is okay
what does good retention look like? Sure
I can have 5% retention but I'm guessing
that Facebook had better than that. So
that's not going to be a successful
business. And I get really pissed off
when people ask me that question
because I think you can figure it out.
And I love this story. And this is like
my one gratuitous story that I love that
I'm throwing in here. So the rest of it
may not be as as gratuitous, but this is
a picture that was published in Life
magazine in 1950 of one of the Trinity
nuclear bomb tests. And there's a guy
Jeffrey Taylor. Who's heard of Jeffrey
Taylor?
Awesome. Yes, someone's heard of him.
Jeffrey Taylor was a British physicist
who ended up actually winning the Nobel
Prize. And he was able to figure out
from looking at this picture what the
power of the atomic bomb was, the US
atomic bomb. And Russians were
publishing similar pictures just using
dimensional reasoning. And dimensional
reasoning is I think one of the best
skills that I learned during my time
studying physics back in the UK. And
what dimensional reasoning is is you
look at the dimensions that are involved
in a problem. So you want to figure out
energy, newtons, meters. Newtons are
kilograms meters secondsus 2. So you've
got kilogram me seconds to minus 2. And
then you try and figure out how you can
get each of those numbers from what data
you have. So the mass is the volume of
this sphere.
So that's a meter cubed you throw in
there. So you got meters to the 5 over
seconds to the minus2. And he was able
to use that to just figure out what the
power of this atomic bomb was, what the
ratios of the power were between the
Russian and US atomic bomb and
essentially reveal one of the top
secrets that existed in the world at
that time. That's a hard problem.
Figuring out what Facebook's retention
rate is is not a hard problem.
How many people are there on the
internet? Give or take. Someone throw
something out.
2.4 billion. 2.3 billion. Something like
that, right? Okay. Facebook's banned in
China. So, what now?
About two billion. Two billion. So, two
billion people on the internet. Facebook
in our last earning score said something
around 1.3 billion in terms of number of
active users. You can divide those
numbers by each other. And yeah, that
won't give you the right answer. Of
course, it's not going to give you the
right answer, but it's going to give you
close enough to a ballpark figure of
what the retention rate looks like for
Facebook if we've signed everyone on the
internet up and then you will know it's
higher than that. Similarly, if you look
at WhatsApp, they've announced 600
million active users. How many people
have smartphones? You can figure out
that number. that number's out and
knocking around. It can give you an idea
of how many users there are. Amazon has
had a pop at signing up almost everyone
in the United States. You know how many
people are online in the US and you've
got a good idea of how many customers
Amazon are from the numbers they throw
out. Different verticals need different
terminal retention rates for them to
have successful businesses. If you're in
e-commerce and you're retaining on a
monthly active basis, like 20 30% of
your users, you're probably going to do
pretty well. If you're in social media
and your first batch of people signing
up to your product are not like 80%
retained, you're not going to have a
massive social media site. And so it
really depends on the vertical you're
in, what the retention rates are. What
you need to do is have the tools to
think about who out there is comparable
and how you can look at it and say, am I
anywhere close to what real success
looks like in this vertical?
So retention is the single most
important thing for growth and retention
comes from having a great idea and a
great product to back up that idea and
great product market fit. The way we
look at whether a product has great
retention or not is whether or not the
users who install it actually stay on it
long term when you normalize on a cohort
basis. And I think that's a really good
methodology for looking at your product
and saying, "Okay, the first hundred,
the first thousand, the first 10,000
people I get on this, will they be
retained in the long run?"
So now, how do you attack operating for
growth? Let's say you have awesome
product market fit. You have built an
e-commerce site and you have 60% of
people coming back every single month
and making a purchase from you, which
would be absolutely fantastic. How do
you then take that and say now it's time
to scale? Now it's time to execute was
the last thing in your thought, right?
And that's where I think growth teams
come in. Like my contrarian viewpoint or
whatever is if you're a startup, you
shouldn't have a [ __ ] you shouldn't
have a growth team. Damn it. So close.
Um halfway through and I I failed. Um
you shouldn't have a growth team. Um
startups should not have growth teams.
The whole company should be the growth
team. The CEO should be the head of
growth. You need someone to set a
northstar for you. Gratuitous shot of
the, you know, NASA page. You need
someone to set a northstar for you about
where the company wants to go.
And that person needs to be the person
leading the company in my opinion from
what I've seen. And Mark is a fantastic
example of that. Back when Facebook
started, lots of people were putting out
their registered user numbers, right?
You'd see registered user numbers for
MySpace. You'd see registered user
numbers for contact. You'd see
registered user numbers. Mark put out
monthly active users as the number both
internally he held everyone to to and
said we need everyone on Facebook, but
that means everyone active on Facebook.
Not everyone signed up to Facebook. So
monthly active people was the number
internally. And it was also the number
he published externally. It was the
number he made the whole world hold
Facebook to as the number that we cared
about. If you look at what Yan has done
with WhatsApp, I think it's another
great example. He always published send
numbers. If you're a messaging
application, sends is probably the
single most important number. If people
use you once a day, maybe that's great,
but they send one message. They you're
not really their primary messaging
mechanism. So, Yan published the sends
number right inside Airbnb. They talk
about nights booked and they also
publish that in all of the like
infographics that you see inside
techrunch. They always benchmark
themselves against how many nights
booked they have compared to the largest
hotel chains in the world. They have
each of these companies a different
northstar. The northstar doesn't have to
be monthly active users for every
different vertical. For eBay when I was
there it was gross merchandised volume.
How much stuff did people actually buy
through eBay? Everyone externally tends
to judge eBay based on revenue.
Actually, Benedict Evans has done this
amazing breakdown of Amazon's business,
which is really interesting to look at
their marketplace business versus their
direct business. eBay is all marketplace
business, right? So, eBay is being
judged by its revenue when it actually
has 10 times or whatever more gross
merchandised volume going through the
site. And that was the number that eBay
looked at when I was inside there and
optimized for. So, every different
company when it thinks about growth
needs a different northstar. But when
you are operating for growth, it is
critical that you have that northstar
and you define it as a leader. The
reason this matters is the second you
have more than one person working on
anything, you cannot control what
everyone else is doing. Right? I promise
you having now hit a hundred people I'm
managing, I I like have no control. It's
all influence. Yes, I can say to one
person, do this one thing, but then the
other 99 are going to do whatever the
hell they want.
And the thing is it's not clear to
everybody what the most important thing
is for a company. It would be very easy
inside eBay for people to say you know
what we should focus on revenue or you
know what we should focus on the number
of people buying from us or you know
what we should focus on how many people
list items on eBay. And Pierre and Meg
and John those guys as various leaders
always said no it's the amount of gross
merchandise volume that goes through our
site. It's the percentage of e-commerce
that goes through our site. That is what
really matters for this company. Which
means when people are having a
conversation, you're not in a room or
when they're sitting in front of their
computer screen and thinking about how
they build this particular product or
this particular feature. In their head,
it's going to be clear to them that it's
not about revenue, it's about gross
merchandise volume, or it's not about
getting more registrations.
Registrations don't matter unless they
become long-term active users. A great
example of this was when I was at eBay
in 2004.
We changed the way we paid our
affiliates for new users.
And affiliate programs are a bit out of
fashion these days. But the idea of an
affiliate program is essentially you pay
anyone on the internet a referral for
sending traffic to your site. But it's
mostly about getting access to like big
marketers who do it on their own like
separately. And there's some really good
stories from this. We were paying for
confirmed registered users. So all of
our affiliates were aligned about
getting confirmed registered users to
the eBay site.
We changed our payment model to pay for
activated confirmed registered users. So
you had to confirm your account and then
bid on an item or buy an item or list an
item to become someone that we paid for.
Overnight when we made that change, we
lost something like 20% of confirmed
registered users that were being driven
by the affiliates.
But the ACUs only dropped by about 5%.
The ratio of CRU to ACRU went up and
then the growth of ACU massively
accelerated.
The cause of this was if you want to
drive CRUs, if someone searches for a
trampoline, you land them on the
registration page because they think
they have to register and confirm before
they get that trampoline. If you want to
drive ACRUs, you land them on the search
results page within eBay for
trampolines, so they can see the thing
they want to buy, get excited about it,
and register when they want to buy it.
And if you drive just CRUs, people don't
have an amazing magic moment on eBay
when they visit the site.
And that's the next most important thing
to think about is how do you drive
towards the magic moment that gets
people hooked on your service. So in the
lecture notes for this course, I've
stuck in a bunch of links to people I
think are brilliant at all of this
stuff. That retention curve I showed
earlier. There's a link to this guy
Danny Ferrante who's incredible talking
about retention curves. The magic
moment, there are two videos linked. One
is Chimoth talking about growth, who was
the guy who set up the growth team at
Facebook. And one is uh my friend Naomi
and I talking at F8 four years ago about
how we were thinking about growth back
then. And in both of those both of those
videos, we talk about the magic moment.
So, what do you guys think the magic
moment is for when you're signing up to
Facebook? You hit that big green button.
What is the moment when users are like,
"Aha!" Mark even talked about it at the
startup school a few years back. See
your friends. See your friends. Simple
as that. And usually it is very simple.
I talked to so many companies and they
try and get incredibly complicated about
what they're doing, but it is as simple
as just when you see that first picture
of one of your friends on Facebook, you
go, "Oh my god, this is what the site is
about." And Zuck's talked at Y
Combinator about getting people to 10
friends in 14 days. That is why we focus
on that metric. The number one most
important thing in a social media site
is connecting to your friends because
without that you have a completely empty
newsfeed and clearly you're not going to
come back. You'll never get any
notifications. You'll never have any
friends telling you about things that
are missing on the site. So for
Facebook, the magic moment is that
moment when you see your friend's face
and everything we do on growth. And if
you look at the LinkedIn registration
flow or you look at the Twitter
registration flow or you look at
whatsApp does when you sign up, the
number one thing all these services look
to do is to show you the people you want
to follow, connect to, send messages to
as quickly as possible because in this
vertical that's what matters.
When you think about Airbnb or you think
about eBay, it's finding on eBay that
unique item, that Pez dispenser or
broken laser pointer um that you really
really cared about and wanted to get
hold of. Like when you see that
collectible thing that you were missing,
that is the real magic moment on eBay.
When you look on Airbnb and you find
that first you find that that first
listing that's like a cool house that
you can stay in and when you go through
the door, that's a magic moment. And
similarly on the other side, when you're
listing your house, the first time you
get paid is an amazing moment. When
you're listing an item on eBay, the
first time you get paid is a magic
moment. You should ask Brian what he
thinks because they've done these
amazing story boards, which I think has
been shared of like the journey through
a user's moment life on on Airbnb and
how excited it is and he's talking in
like three lectures time. The guy's
awesome at talking about the magic
moment and getting his users to feel
love and joy and all this stuff. So
think about what the magic moment is for
your product and get people connected to
it as fast as possible because then you
can move up where that blue line has
asmmptoted. Then you can go from 50%
retention to 60% retention to 70%
retention easily if you can connect
people with the thing that makes them
stick on your site.
The second thing to think about is
everyone in the valley gets wrong that
we optimize when we think about growth
for ourselves.
So my favorite example is notifications.
Again, talk to lots of companies, advise
lots of companies. Every single company
when they talk about notifications goes,
"Oh, I'm getting too many notifications.
I think that's what we need to optimize
for on notifications."
Okay. Are your power users leaving your
site because they're getting too many
notifications? No. Then why would you
optimize that? They're probably
grown-ups and they can use filters.
What you need to focus on is the
marginal user. The one person who
doesn't get a notification in a given
day or month or year. Our experience of
our products. And by the way, like
building an awesome product is all about
thinking about the power user, right?
Building an incredible product is
definitely optimizing for the people who
use your product the most, but driving
growth. People who are already using
your product all the time are not the
ones you have to worry about. So, in
this Danny Freriante video, there's also
that's linked from the lecture page,
there's also talk about our growth
accounting framework that we used to
think about for growth. And we looked at
new users, resurrected users, people who
weren't on Facebook for 30 days and came
back, and churned users. And the
resurrected and churn numbers for pretty
much every product I've ever seen
dominate the new user count once you
reach a sensible point of growth, a
couple of years in, whatever. And all
those users who were churning and
resurrecting had low friend counts and
didn't find their friends and so weren't
connected to the great stuff that was
going on on Facebook. And so the number
one thing we needed to focus on was
getting them to those 10 friends,
getting them to whatever number of
friends they needed. So think about the
user on the margin. Don't think about
where yourself when you're thinking
about growth.
So operating for growth, what you really
need to think about is what is the north
star of your company? What is the one
metric where if everyone in the company
is thinking about it and driving their
product towards that metric and their
actions towards moving that metric up,
you know, in the long run your company
will be successful. And by the way,
they're probably all correlated to each
other. So it's fine to pick almost any
metric. Whichever one is like the
deepest like that you feel the best
about that aligns with like your mission
and your values, probably go for that
one. But realistically, daily active
users fairly correlated to monthly
active users. We could have gone with
either one. amount of content shared
also very correlated to how many users
there are because guess what? You add a
user, they share content. So, lots of
things end up being correlated. Pick the
one that fits with you and that you know
you're going to be able to stick with
for a long time. But have a north star.
Have a northstar and know the magic
moment that when a user experiences that
they will deliver on that metric for you
on the north star. And then think about
the marginal user. Don't think about
yourself.
Those are, I think, the really important
points when you're operating for growth.
Everything has to come from the top.
So, the last area here is tactics. And
my hope was that um I could hit a few of
these and then I've got a list of
tactics I want to go through that I'm
better talking with a whiteboard and
whatever on, but you can ask me
questions as I'm going through on those
about how they work and what goes
better. But the important tactics that
you need to think about are this is
great guy by the way, Tom Fishbin. He he
lives in the Bay Area and he does these
really cynical cartoons that I love. So
let's say you found your your niche
market that you're going to have a
monopoly on inside the mousetrap market.
It's a silenced mousetrap for sitting
under bed so that if the mice come to
your bed overnight like they can be
killed without waking you up. So that's
your niche market and your your
mousetrap is better than anybody else
for that market. What typically happens
in Silicon Valley is everyone thinks
marketers are useless. Like I thought
marketers were useless when I was a
physics student. So I'm sure as
engineering students you must think
we're awful awful people who aren't
useful to have around like build it and
they will come. That is something that
is very much the mantra in the valley
and I don't believe it's true. I believe
you actually have to work. There's a
good article again in the lecture page
from interviewing Ben Sman where he
talks about how the growth of Pinterest
was driven by marketing and it's a
really good article to read into.
Unbiased of course. So the first tactic
I want to talk about is
internationalization.
Facebook internationalized too late.
Cheryl said it broadly in public and I
definitely agree with that. One of the
biggest barriers to our long-term growth
and one of the biggest things we had to
deal with was all the countries where
there were clones. Famously, Studio Fed
had fakebook.css
in their in their HTML. And there were a
ton of sites like that out there,
whether it was Studio Fet as a clear
clone, Contactia, Mixie, SWorld, Orcut,
there were all these different social
networks around the world that grew up
while Facebook was focused on the US.
And so internationalizing was an
important barrier we needed to knock
down. And knocking down barriers is
often very important to think about for
growth. Facebook started off as college
only. So every college that it was
launched in was knocking down a barrier.
When Facebook expanded beyond colleges
to high schools, I wasn't at the
company. But that was a company shaking
moment where people questioned whether
or not Facebook could actually survive,
the culture of the site could survive.
Then expanding from high schools to
everyone. That was like just before I
joined and that was a shocking moment
and that spurred the growth onto 50
million and then we hit a brick wall.
And when we hit that brick wall that was
the point when a lot of existential
questions were being asked inside
Facebook about whether any social
network could ever get to more than 100
million users which sounds stupid now
but at the time no one had ever achieved
it. Everyone had kind of tapped out
between 50 and 100 million users. And we
were worried that it wasn't possible and
that was the point at which the growth
team got set up. Chimoth brought a bunch
of us together. It was uh
he said very publicly that he wanted to
fire me on multiple occasions and he
probably should have done but without
Chimoth I think none of us would have
stayed at the company. We were a really
weird bunch of people but it worked out.
And the two things we did I think that
really really drove growth initially was
number one we focused on that 10 friends
in 14 days and getting users to the
magic moment. And that was something
Zuck drove cuz we were all stuck in
analysis paralysis saying is it
causation? Is it correlation? Zuck was
like, "You really think if no one gets a
friend that they'll be active on
Facebook? Are you crazy?"
The second thing was
internationalization. It was knocking
down another barrier. And when we
launched it, I think there were two
things that we did really well. Number
one was even though we were late and we
were stressed about being late, we took
the time to build it in a scalable way.
We moved slow to move fast. And you can
actually re hear the full story from
Naomi in one of the videos linked from
the lecture uh page. But what we did was
we wrapped all the strings in the site
in FBT uh which is our translation
script and then or translation
extraction script and then we created
the community translation platform so
that we didn't just have professional
translators translating the site, we
could have all of our users translating
the site and we got French translated in
12 hours. But we managed to get to this
day, we're now at 104 languages
translated by Facebook uh for Facebook.
80 uh 70 of those are translated by the
community
and we took the time to build something
that would enable us to scale. The other
thing is we prioritized the right
languages. So back then the right
languages the big four languages were
French, Italian, German and Spanish figs
and Chinese but we were blocked in
China.
So, we focused on French, Italian,
German, and Spanish. Now, look at that
list. That's today's distribution of
languages. Italian isn't on the list
anymore.
French and German are about to fall off.
In the last year, we quadrupled the
number of people on Facebook in Hindi.
Quadrupled.
And so, building for where the world is
today is an easy mistake to make. And
it's what a lot of the other social
networks did. We built a scalable
translation infrastructure that actually
enabled us to attack all of the
languages so we could be ready for where
the future is going to is going to be.
And you'll probably be able to see some
stuff from our internet.org summit in
India about where we want to go with
language translations later today
because I think they're talking about
that stuff there.
So these are the tactics I want to go
through now and I'll stick with the
whiteboard for that stuff. But I'd
really encourage you guys as I go
through these if you've got any
questions about them, let me know. I
think this should be like a more free
form time anyway. But I think some of
these tactics are quite interesting.
So virality.
Yes. I think there are two ways to look
at virality. There's a great book. Uh
whoops. The book on the right here by
Adam Pennenberg, Viral Loop, goes
through a bunch of case studies of
companies that have grown through viral
marketing. And I strongly encourage you
if you're interested in viral marketing
to get that book. I think Oglevian and
advertising is great as well because
chapter seven he's like if you can't
think of anything else stick a car to a
billboard with superglue and people will
buy your superglue and he's got some
really he's got some really good
creative tips in there like the the
guy's been dead 20 years and I think
he's still I I buy everyone on my team
gets both of these books um when they
start on my team. Um so virality so
Shawn Park has this model that he taught
uh or he told us about when he when when
I joined Facebook which is to think
about virality for a product in terms of
three things. First is payload.
So how many people can you hit with any
given viral blast?
Second he had cooler words for these.
I'm not quite as cool. Um uh second uh
is conversion rate and third is
frequency. Payload, frequency and
conversion rate whatever that would.
So how many people can you hit at once
is payload. How many times can you hit
them per blast is frequency and what are
they going to convert at and that gives
you a fundamental idea of how viral a
product is. So, Hotmail is the like
canonical example of brilliant viral
marketing, right? Back when Hotmail
launched, there were a bunch of male
companies that had been funded and that
were throwing huge amounts of money at
traditional advertising. How many people
know the Hotmail story about virality?
Awesome. Great new audience. Sorry. Um,
that's two or three people who will be
bored. But Hotmail, um, back in back at
that time, people couldn't get free
email clients. they had to be tied to
their ISP
and Hotmail and a few other companies
launched and their clients were
available wherever you went. You could
log in via library internet or whatever
school internet and be able to get
access to that which was a really big
value proposition for everyone who
wanted to access it. Most of the
companies went out there and did big TV
campaigns and billboard campaigns and
newspaper campaigns and things like
that. Bought a lot of advertising off
Yahoo, all of those things. But the
Hotmail team didn't have as much funding
and so they had to scrabble around to
figure out how to do it. So what they
did was add that little link at the
bottom of every email that said sent
from Hotmail. Get your free email here.
Now the interesting thing is that meant
the payload was low, right? You email
one person at a time, not necessarily
going to have a huge payload. Maybe you
send around some of those viral spammy
emails, but then I'm not sure I'll click
on your link.
The frequency is high though because
you're emailing the same people over and
over and over which means you're going
to hit them once, twice, three times a
day with that same link and really move
up the impressions. And the conversion
rate was also very high because people
didn't like being tied to their ISP
email. And so Hotmail ended up being
extremely viral because it had high
frequency and high conversion rates.
Another example is PayPal.
PayPal. Um, PayPal is interesting
because PayPal has two sides to it.
PayPal has the buyer and the seller
side. Um, the other thing that's
interesting about PayPal is its
mechanism for viral growth was eBay. And
so, you can use all kinds of things for
virality that may not look necessarily
obviously viral. So, PayPal, if you sent
money, if you said to a seller, I am
going to send you money. Like,
I can't think of a higher conversion
rate. frequency was low, payload was
low, but PayPal did this thing where
they they gave away money when you got
your friends to sign up for PayPal. And
so that's how they went viral on the
consumer side. They didn't have to do
that for sellers cuz if I said I am
going to send you money via this, you
will take that. And even on the consumer
side, they went viral because someone
said, "Sign up for this thing and you'll
get 10 bucks." Why wouldn't you? So they
were able to go viral, but in both cases
it was because their conversion rate was
incredibly high on the buyer and the
seller side, not because their payload
and frequency was high. Make sense? So
this is a really good way to look at
virality if you want to say is this
product viral. Facebook was not viral
via email sharing or anything like that.
Facebook was purely viral via word of
mouth. Because the interesting thing
about PayPal and Hotmail
is to use them, the first person had to
send an email to someone who wasn't on
the service. With Facebook, there's no
native way to contact people who aren't
on the service.
And everyone thinks of Facebook as like
viral marketing success, and that's
actually not how it grew. It was word of
mouth virality because it was an awesome
product you wanted to tell your friends
about.
How's everyone doing? Is this
interesting? Great question. Yes. So,
when you're talking about this uh low
payload in both those examples,
in the later rounds, as this sort of
campaign or whatever you want to call it
gets going, are you going to have a much
higher payload as more and more people
are sending hot mail to more and more
folks and that way your payload grows
and grows and grows? Uh, so the question
is, in the first round it makes sense
that it has a low payload, but in later
rounds, aren't you going to have higher
payloads as people send more and more
and more emails? I guess in my head,
well, first and foremost, I think you
actually only send emails to a small
number of people. So, compared to like
the massive viral engines that exist
today where you import someone's entire
contact book and send them all uh send
them all an email or where you post to
everyone's friends on Facebook, the
actual payloads are still very small,
even if it's everyone that you email on
a frequent basis you hit. And I'm also
thinking really per um email sent out,
how many people are on it. But it's a
fair point like yeah, as more people get
on get on Hotmail, they'll send more
emails. As more people use email, the
product actually grows more and more
successfully. So that's a fair fair
point. Go for it. Doesn't like point of
conversion also matter? So like when you
just click and you sign up, but if you
see a billboard ad, it's it's more
there's more resistance to signing up.
Completely agree. That's why Oh, sorry.
Uh doesn't point of conversion matter as
well? So on Hotmail, um you click to
sign up, but on a billboard you have to
remember the URL, go to the website,
type it in, find the registration
button, click register, and sign up.
Yes. Yes. anything you can do to move
friction out of the flow and going from
an offline ad to an online ad removes
huge amounts of friction from the flow.
Obviously, totally agree with that. One
more at the back. Aren't frequency and
conversion related? Aren't frequency and
conversion rate related? Absolutely. If
you hit someone with the same promotion
uh I repeated that aren't frequency and
conversion rate related. If you hit
someone with the same email over and
over and over again or the same banner
ad, this is one of the things that's
fundamental about online marketing. The
same rules apply to every channel. If
you hit someone with the same Facebook
ad over and over and over, the more
times you hit them with the same ad, the
le less they'll click. That's why we
have like creative exhaustion. You have
to rotate creatives on Facebook. Same
with banner ads. Same with newsfeed
stories. The 50th time you see that IQ
story in your newsfeed, you are not
going to click on it. If you haven't
clicked on the 49 before, you're not
going to click on the 50th. The same is
absolutely true with these emails. So if
you send the same email over and over
and over to people for an invite then or
if you send the same little link at the
bottom over and over and over to people
for hotmail or I mean the PayPal one's
different cuz people just signed up. But
yes, you will get lower conversion rate
and that impre the more you hit someone
with the same message the less they
convert is fundamental across every
online marketing channel. Every online
marketing channel. Cool. Second way to
look at virality, which I think is
awesome, is by this guy Ed. And Ed runs
the growth team at Uber. Now, he was at
the growth team at Facebook and he was a
Stanford MBA student and did a a class
similar to this where they talked about
virality and they all went and built
viral products. And there was there was
a bunch of press about that actually.
And he's brilliant at this stuff. The
interesting thing about Uber is if you
look at their growth team, they're
incredibly focused on drivers because as
a two-sided marketplace, they need
drivers. That's a huge huge chunk of
their focus as a team. even though
they've got like probably the best viral
guy in the world at the company. So with
virality you send out uh you get someone
to contact import let's say
then the question is how many of those
people do you get to send imports then
the question is to how many people
then how many click
and you can put extra steps in this you
could put how many open how many click
whatever how many click how many sign up
and then how many of those import. So
essentially, you want people who sign up
to your site to import their contacts.
You want to then get them to send an
invite to all of those contacts. You
want to get it to all of those contacts,
not just one of them. Then you want to
get a percentage of those to click and a
percent of those to sign up. If you
multiply out the percents at every point
in this, this is essentially where,
well, this isn't a percent, this is a
number. um if you multiply those out
that's essentially the point where you
get to the question of what is the K
factor.
So if you have
when someone imports if on average they
uh send invites to a 100 people um sorry
doing that wrong. Let's say 100 people
get an invite per person who imports and
then of those 10% click that gets you to
10. And then of those, let's say 50%
sign up. That gets you to five. And then
of those, only 10 to 20%
actually subsequently import. You're
going to be at a point where you're at
0.5 to one as your K factor and you're
going to not be viral. So a lot of
things like Vidy are very good at
pumping or were very good at pumping out
stories that got the K factor over one
and it's perfectly doable to get the K
factor over one. But if you have
something that doesn't have high
retention on the back end, it doesn't
really matter. So you should look at
your invite flow and say, okay, what is
my equivalent of import? How many people
per import are invites sent to? How many
of those receive clicks? How many of
those convert to my site? how many of
those then import to get an idea of your
K factor. But the really important thing
is still to think about retention and
not to think about virality and only do
this after after you have uh a large
number of people retained on your
product per person who signs up. So
couple more things we were going to
touch on
uh SEO, email, SMS and push
notifications. So on SEO there are three
things you need to think about.
First one is keyword research. People do
this badly all the time. So, I launched
this cocktail site that I talked to you
about. I spent a year optimizing it to
rank for the word cocktail making. Turns
out in the UK, no one searches for
cocktail making. About 500 people a
month. I dominated that search term. It
was awesome. Got 400 visitors a month.
It was amazing. Everyone searches for
cocktail recipes in the UK. And in the
US, which is the biggest market,
everyone searches for drink recipes. So,
I optimized for the wrong word. So,
you've got to do your research first
about what you're going to go after. So
research consists of what do people
search for that's related to your site?
How many people search for it? How many
other people are ranking for it? And how
valuable is it for you? Supply, demand,
and value. Simple economics, I guess. So
you do your keyword research, you figure
out which keywords you want to rank for.
There are great tools out there to
enable you to do that. Honestly, the
best is quite often the Google Adwords
keyword planner tool really. Once you've
done that, the next most important thing
is links. So, page rank is how all of uh
SEO essentially is driven and Google is
based on authority. Now, there's a lot
of other things in Google's algorithm
now like do people search for your
website? There's a lot of stuff about
the distribution of what the anchor text
is that's sent to your site so that if
you abuse it and spam it, they can pop
up with spam. white on a white
background five pages below the fold
doesn't work anymore but the single most
important thing is to get valuable links
from high authority websites for you to
rank in Google most important thing
then you need to distribute that love
inside your site by internally linking
effectively and when I joined Facebook
we'd launched SEO in September 2007
which was before I joined I joined
November 2007 and we'd launched it and
we were getting no traffic from the the
pages we'd launched, public user
profiles.
So, when I went in and looked at it, the
only way you could get to any public
user profile was to click on the footer
of the page for the about link, then
click on one of the blog articles, then
click on one of the authors, and then
spider out through their friends to get
to all their friends. Turns out that
Google was like, they buried these
pages. They're not very valuable. I'm
not going to rank them. We made one
change. We added a directory so that
Google could quickly get to every page
on the site and we 100xed SEO traffic.
Very very simple change drove a lot of
upside about distributing the link love
internally. And then the last thing is
there's a bunch of table stake stuff XML
sitemaps making sure you have the right
headers. It's all covered really well
online for what you want to do.
I'm going to stop now and make sure
because we had a few questions but what
other questions are there?
Go for it. Can we go into email? Let's
go into email. Okay, great. Um, email,
email is dead for people under 25 in my
opinion, right? Young people don't use
email. They use WhatsApp, they use SMS,
they use Snapchat, they use Facebook,
they don't use email. If you are
targeting an older audience, email is uh
pretty successful. Email still works for
distribution, but realistically, email
is not that great for teenagers
especially, and even people at
university. you know how much you use
instant messaging apps and how little
you use email and you guys are probably
on the high end of the scale for email
because you're in Silicon Valley.
That being said on email, the things to
think about email, SMS, and push
notifications all behave the same way.
They all have questions of
deliverability. So to finish first,
first you have to finish. Your email has
to get to someone's inbox. So if you
send a lot of spam and you end up with
dirty IPs or you send spam from shared
servers where other people are or you
send email notifications from shared
servers where other people are sending
spam from, you are going to end up being
put in the spam folder consistently and
your email will fail completely. You may
end up being blocked and have your email
bounce. There's a lot of stuff around
email where you have to look. When you
receive feedback from the servers you
are sending email to 500 series errors
versus 400 series errors. You have to be
respectful of how those are handled. If
someone gives you a hard bounce, retry
once or twice and then stop trying
because if you are someone who abuses
people's inboxes, the email companies
spam fold you and it's very hard to get
out. If you get caught on a spam house
link or anything like that, it's very
hard to get out. It's really important
with email that you are a highclass
citizen, that you do good work with
email because you want to have
deliverability for the long run. that
counts for push notifications and SMS
too. With SMS, you can go and buy SMS
traffic via gray roots with people where
they're having uh phones strung up
attached to like a computer and pumping
out SMSs. That works for a time, but it
always gets shut down. And I've seen so
many companies make these mistakes where
they think they're going to grow by
using these kind of tactics. If you
can't get your email, your SMS, or your
push delivered, you will never get any
success from these push. You spam your
power users. I know that's slightly
different to what I said earlier, but
you actually spam your power users and
give them notifications they don't care
about and make it really hard for them
to opt out. So, there's no settings
where they can opt out and they start
blocking you. You can never push them
once they've opted out of your push
notifications.
And it's very hard actually to prompt
them to turn them on once they've turned
them off. So, number one thing to think
about about email, SMS, and push
notifications is you have to get them
delivered.
Beyond that, it's a question of open
rate, click-through rate. So, what is
the compelling subject line you can put
there so that people are going to open
your email and how can you get them to
click when they visit? Everyone focuses
towards doing marketing emails that are
just spam in my opinion. Newsletters are
stupid. Don't do newsletters because
you'll send the same message to everyone
on your site. Someone who signed up to
your site yesterday versus someone who's
been using your product for three years.
Do they need the same message? No, the
most effective email you can do is
notifications.
So, what are you sending? What should
you be notifying people of? And this is
a great place where we're in the wrong
mindset. As a Facebook user, I don't
want Facebook to email me about every
like I receive because I receive a lot
of likes because I've got a bunch of
Facebook friends. But as a new Facebook
user, that first like you receive is a
magic moment. Turning on that
notification across all of our channels
increased the click-through rate on our
emails, SMS, and push notifications, but
we only turned it on for lowengaged
users who weren't coming back to the
site, so it wouldn't be spamming for
them, spamming them. So, it was a great
experience. So, think about that. What
notifications should you be sending is
the first thing that you need to think
about on email, SMS, and push. And then
the second thing you need to be thinking
about is how can you create great
triggered marketing campaigns.
So when someone created their first
crossber trade transaction was one of
the best email campaigns I was ever part
of at eBay in terms of clickthrough
rates. It was awesome because it was
really timely really in context the
right thing to do for the user. So I'd
say make sure you have deliverability
most important thing. Focus on
notifications and trigger based email
SMS and push notifications beyond that.
So, I think we're out of time. There's
one thing I wanted to finish with, which
is um and if you guys have any
questions, I guess like you can reach me
and if I get spammed, I just won't
reply. Um we have great spam filters.
No. Uh
my one of my favorite quotes is from
General Patton, and it's so cliched,
it's crazy, but it's awesome. A good
plan violently executed today is better
than a perfect plan tomorrow. And one of
the things Chimoth instilled in us and
Jav still instills in us and Mark
instills across the whole of Facebook is
this move fast and don't be afraid to
break stuff ethos. If you can run more
experiments than the next guy, if you
can be hungry for growth, if you fight
and die for every extra user and you
stay up late at night to get those extra
users to run those experiments, to get
the data and do it over and over and
over again, you will grow faster. Marcus
said he thinks we won because we wanted
it more. And I really believe that. We
just worked really hard. It's not like
we're crazy smart or we've all done
these crazy things before. We just
worked really, really hard and we
executed fast. And I strongly encourage
you to do that. Growth is optional.
Thank you.
[Applause]