Title: Shana Fisher at Startup School NY 2014
Video ID: Vp48ko2VJgE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vp48ko2VJgE
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-06-20T07:49:31Z
Duration: PT27M21S
Views: 21880
Likes: 157
Tags: Shana Fisher, Y Combinator, Startup School
Transcript Language: English (en)
Auto-generated: False
Snippets: 343

Description:
Shana Fisher speaks at Startup School NY 2014

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

- Hello. I'm Kat Manalac and I
am a partner at Y Combinator
and I'm excited to see you all
here today and I'm also excited
to introduce you to Shana Fisher.
Shana is the founder and managing
partner of High Line Venture Partners,
which is based here in New York City, and
she's also board partner at Andreessen
Horowitz. As an early stage investor,
Shana invested in companies like MakerBot,
Pinterest, 53, Refinery29, and even Y. C.
Stripe. So investors know her as someone
who has this incredible ability to
recognize greatness in early stage
entrepreneurs, even before they have
traction. But maybe more importantly, her
portfolio companies know her as someone
who helps them realize that greatness. So,
we're really lucky to have her here today,
and I'm excited to welcome Shana Fisher.
[applause]
- [Shana Fisher] Thank you so much.
It's so great to be here. Thank you
so much to Y Combinator. I really
am a big admirer of the program.
I fund a lot of companies out
of Y. C.and it's really the
main reason I'm here.
One thing that's important
for me to say before I start is I really
never blog or tweet or say anything about
what I do. Um, so why am I here? I'm here
really because I love Y Combinator, one,
and two, I love New York for startups. So,
you know, when I was invited, I thought,
"OK, this will be fun. " Um, there's a
variety of reasons why I don't really talk
about what I do, but the main reason is, I
think, really the companies are the most
important thing about what I do. So it's
really not important for me to talk. It's
really more important for them to talk. So
when I was invited here, I really had to
think like, "Do I really wanna do this?"
And, you know, one of the main-- And what
do I wanna say? And the main reason I
decided to come, um, is because the reason
I don't blog or tweet or talk about what I
do is that I often am told I give the
opposite advice of what people
normally hear.
So I thought that's a great way to use
this time. Um, I'm gonna just go through
the major areas that I hear over and over
and over again that I'm giving people the
opposite advice of what they normally
hear. And I thought that would be the best
way to use this time. Um, so first of all,
I made this presentation with a lot of
help. But one of the things is it's in
this beautiful format of Paper, which I
think is, you know, an amazing
presentation format. So if you're
wondering what this is, it's one of my
companies that I love very much, 53's
Paper. So, the first I'll cover is runway.
And I'm just gonna like hit a couple of
major topics and talk about my thoughts on
each one. So one of the first things I see
when companies come to raise money is
that they're raising money for runway. So
they'll often say, "I'm raising a million
and a half dollars that's for 18 months
and, um, that's what we're doing. " Um,
right there, I don't like that. So I like
when people are raising money, um, to get
their company done by any means necessary.
It's not about having 18 months. It's
about making whatever you raise last and
whatever you're able to raise last,
whether you're raising a lot or whether
you're raising a little. And actually, one
of the things that I think is really great
about Y Combinator, and I've known Y.C.
since it was a Boston program. And if
you meet companies from Y. C.and you talk
to them, even the ones that were in the
Boston program six, seven years ago, what
you realize is that they don't think about
raising money as runway in the very early
stage. They think about it as, "How am I
gonna get this done by any means necessary
and how long is this gonna last?"
And that's the most important thing.
It's not about, you know,
having enough because runway really
about labor, it's about payroll, it's
about rent. So what you often find in
companies that aren't thinking about
runway, they think about, "How am I gonna
solve some of those problems in different
ways? How am I gonna get not to pay rent?"
So one of the things I try to do for my
companies, especially if they don't raise
a lot of money, is how to get them free
space for as long as possible 'cause
that's one of the-- That's just one of
the ways to get the money ticking
down. Another way is, of course,
thinking about labor. How many people do
you really need? Who are you paying? Why
are you paying them? How much are you
paying them? And that's a big factor.
So I think runway is sort of one of
those things, it's often the thing in the
beginning. That is like the most important
of how to get as far as you can because,
you know, your valuation only goes up
after that, and hopefully, that's sort of
my philosophy runway. Um, founders,
co-founders. Um, common knowledge, I
think, is that it's good to have
co-founders. Um, for some people I think
that's true. Um, I have a lot of single
founders in my portfolio I think--
I think it's not always right to have
co-founders. I think certain people,
certain people that can take a company
really far actually are not-- are not
actually equipped to have co-founders.
They're actually better being a single
founder and so I don't make exceptions
to that. I like to see, I like to see
people that can take the company the
distance and having a single founder might
sometimes be the best way to do that. If
you do have co-founders, I think it's
really important not to have repeat
skills. Developer, designer, obviously
incredibly important, um, product.
Sometimes that's inside a developer,
sometimes that's outside.
Sometimes that's
inside the designer, sometimes that's
outside. I think it's really important
when you're looking at who
you're starting a company with.
I can't, I'm not going to make a
generalization. Sometimes, you know,
people who have known each other forever.
They may have overlapping skills. They may
have known each other growing up and may
be the right person to start a company
with. But a lot of times what I'm seeing
are people they're like they just met the
person a couple of weeks ago or months ago
because they wanted to start a company.
Now that starting a company is so-- it's
just something people do when they
graduate. There're so many companies,
people feel like that's the only way to do
it. And I think that some people are just
better to be single founders and you
should structure the company around your
own skills. Um, time. That's time to
launch. That's what this means to me. Um,
common knowledge I think is you should get
product out quick, you should iterate, and
it should be live. Um, actually, I often
take the opposite view on this. I think
four years ago I might have said, "Launch
quick. That's actually important. " Today,
there's thousands of startups and it's a
thing that many, many people are doing; I
actually think you should take as much
time as possible to make your product
perfect. And because there is so much
competition, you have to really think
differently about what space you're in and
how much time you're taking to launch.
It's actually possible today to have
smaller groups of users. It doesn't have
to be live, but I actually don't think
it's good to rush products out. I think if
it takes you a year to make your product
perfect, then you should take a year. It's
not about getting it out. Because I think
you have to have like the hooks in it and
a couple of traps that are gonna be
the reason why consumers love your
product and it can a while to craft that.
And it's not so important, I think, today
to just get something out there a minimum
viable product. I think actually what is
important to do today is to try to figure
how you're gonna raise above and level
above all of the competitors. And that's
something that timelines, and it kinda
goes back to the runway, are really
important to think about initially.
Location. Um, New York versus San
Francisco versus everywhere else. Um, I
really like-- I love New York to create
companies. I think New York is a very
creative city. I think it gives people a
lot of inspiration. There's certainly a
lot of a lot of input you get your product
that you don't get in a community where
everybody is doing tech. There's a lot of
money in the early stage in New York, so I
think that's excellent. What there isn't
is a lot of money in the middle stage.
It's still California, I think, primarily
that has a huge advantage with the
trajectory companies are able to get. And
doing things like Y Combinator, actually
if you're gonna be located in New York is
extremely strategic. You might not even
think about the relationships that you're
forming there, how valuable they're gonna
be two years from now, you're just
thinking about, "How do I get my thing
funded? How do I get my startup  to be
separated from everybody else?" which Y.C.
is excellent in that. But what it's also
good at is really putting down roots in
California so if you're gonna in New York,
you have to have some roots there. If
you're ever gonna-- if you're gonna wanna
go back there. And having investors in
both cities, I think, is also really
important because you get very different
perspectives and that's why I think
location has to be thought about very
strategically. Certain companies, I think,
have real advantages to be in a city and
an urban environment like New York or
other cities. Others have real advantages
with the amount of people you can hire and
the talent that you find in California,
northern California. So I think, um,
that's my view on location and I sometimes
hear... I sometimes hear the opposite or
not an honest evaluation of what are
really the pros and cons.
So this like my favorite one. Um, nobody
knows anything especially when it comes to
investors. And I think about that all the
time myself and I find actually it's very
liberating. It's very liberating 'cause I
know many of the great companies that I
found, when I found them, absolutely
nobody else was looking at them. Most
people didn't like them and it was very
difficult to tell that what they were
going to become was gonna be as big as
they did become. And I think it's
important for all of you starting
companies to really remember when you're
talking to investors, it's very personal,
it's very subjective. So, if you hear
negative comments, if you hear like, "This
doesn't make any sense, " nine times out
of 10, that might be true. But one time,
it maybe that what you're doing it so new
that like nobody can evaluate it. And
that's when really great things happen.
You also might be talking to an investor
that have just in 10 investments
and they're not even in the head space to
do yours. So I think it's really important
to, you know, when you sit down with
investors, talk about it like, "What are
the last couple of deals you did?" Look,
if you get someone that hasn't done a deal
in a while, they're actually maybe more
open-minded to you. And I think you have
to be more strategic about-- You can be
more strategic about the people you're
talking to, not just closing your round.
You can close people that are really gonna
spend the time and actually have an open
mind on what you're doing and give you
good feedback. So it's really important
when you're talking to investors to
realize, look, they probably aren't in any
better position to evaluate what you're
doing in a weird way, then you know
the next person sitting next to you.
There is a lot of patterns.
People get stuck in patterns.
I don't actually believe in patterns.
I think patterns actually can
trap you into wanting to see
the same thing that worked before.
But, you know, the river is always flowing
and the markets are very different. What
worked today is not gonna be working, you
know, it's not gonna be something that
worked four years ago. So personally, I
try not to look for patterns. I'm also
known I contradict myself a lot so I'm
talking about patterns. But, I'm talking
about, you know, my advice. But I
think when you're starting or
crafting your company, just thinking about
the role that investors play and who
you're talking to and where they're coming
from, kind of do some research when you
sit down with them before you just launch
into your presentation, and you'll get a
sense, "Hey, is this person even like a
candidate or are they probably, you know,
kind of like is their plate already full?"
A lot of investors can't even really--
You know, if they're a lead or a board
member, you know, if they're on more than
12 boards, that's like a lot. So if you're
talking on someone on 12 boards or someone
who's new, you're much more likely to get
the results you want with someone who is
very open-minded to what you're building.
And these are some of the things to look
for. Um, product development. I have a
couple of things on product development
that I find myself going over a lot.
Um, one actually-- I got this
advice from Paper. I was with the Paper
team this morning and I asked them like
what, you know, "How do you guys think
about product development as a startup?
What are some of the things you did that
you think are valuable and what are the
things that you think you wish you knew?"
And one of the things that's really
important, and I really believe this goes
back to the number of people on the team,
I think it's really important build for
today. If you read development blogs and
many people that have worked at bigger
companies leave those companies with the
same disciplines and a lot of those
disciplines you might read about in
development blogs like art, you know,
you're gonna spend a lot of time on
infrastructure, but you're not gonna
spend a lot of time on the product
you're trying to build for today.
And prioritizing what actually is building
for today, having a big vision. 'Cause
when you start a company, you often have a
big vision like, "This is what we're gonna
do. This is our business. This is an area
we're trying to disrupt. " But from a real
product development standpoint like what's
today's problem you're actually gonna
solve. And I often advice companies that
are also going to Y. C. , "Go to Y. C.to
grow. " Because some of the connections
and the relationships you're making have
really been incredible difference makers
for companies to either get other startups
using their product or take advantage of
the mentors there to teach them like
really how to craft growth when you have
that solid product. And I think that's one
of the best things to remember about
building. Another thing I like to think
about, again, time. I think you wanna as
much time as possible to build the perfect
product. One thing that's related to this
is design. Um, I think today design is
really becoming-- It's like all the same.
Great design is all the same. There's the
same CSS templates a lot of people are
using. And so the designs kind of bleed
into each other. You know kind of what
makes great design today. It's like flat,
it's whatever serve Apple is also, um,
bringing forward, which is great, but you
don't have any breakthroughs. So if
everybody is using the same templates, the
same full bleed photos, the same
Sans-serif font, the same saturated
colors, which are all beautiful. And
today, we're trained, especially investors
are trained to look at the design and be
like, "Oh that's clean, that's beautiful.
That looks like it's supposed to look, but
it looks like everything else. " So what I
actually like to look for, and I funded a
lot of stuff that did not look good,
'cause I knew like all you have to do is
like a tip of the iceberg, you have to put
some design onto that. But if you have
something really breakthrough, don't worry
about how it looks because how it looks is
often gonna be something you can do, use
one of those CSS templates that everybody
else is gonna judge you by.
But I think if there's any designers in
the room, I think it's time to push past
what everybody is starting to look like.
And that's something that I look for. I
know that, you know, we got to this design
because there, you know, this kind of
pervasive design because, you know, there
was another pervasive design that kind of
got overtaken by this one, and I think
we're ready to have a new look. I don't
know what it is, of course. That's what I
look for everyday. But I'd really like to
see products not be so skin deep because I
think that you can trapped in the skin
deep-ness of a product and not worry about
like what you really trying to do that's
breakthrough underneath, how hard is it,
how much time does it take to get perfect.
And often design is last. Um, and I hope
there are breakthroughs there, but I
really would focus on sort of the iceberg
of the product versus the surface.
People. So related to runway, you know,
people race money and they say, "We're
gonna go hire five people. We're gonna
hire seven people. We're gonna hire four
developers 'cause we need four developers
to get this done by three months. " And
what I found is that most people that are
starting startups don't know how to manage
people. And you know you're gonna find
yourself overwhelmed. And it's really
important to perfect how you manage people
one by one. So if you say, "Have a single
founder, " you should hire one person and
perfect it with that person. If you have
two founders, hire one person, perfect how
you're gonna manage that person and build
the team that way. Um, I think another
thing is, um, this is gonna sound really
cheesy, I guess, but diversity is really
important. And you know, if you look
around and you founded your
company all of the same,
you're just not gonna have
enough views of your user.
And a lot of founders-- I don't know if
this sounds controversial but most
founders are male. I have certainly funded
a lot of female founders. I funded a lot
of products that are for women created by
males, but they prioritize hiring women
pretty early on. So it's sort of a, you
know, equal opportunity thing. I mean, you
wanna find the best person for the job but
you really should think about bringing
other people into the company, not just
being female founders, but bring women
into the company either in design roles,
development roles. You know, there's a lot
of times in my companies.They probably get
tired of me doing this but I meet a young
female developer who I think has promised
and I was like, "Just tell a company you
have to hire her. You have to train her. "
Because there is no way are gonna get
opportunities unless founders, founders
who really in the position of taking their
companies forward do that. And you're
gonna find those people are so valuable.
You're not even gonna-- And partly it's
karma, but I actually believe it's one of
those things that if you bring these
people into your company whether it's, you
know, racial diversity or gender diversity
or just people that don't think like you,
you know, mental diversity, however you
wanna say it. I just think it's so
critical to building great companies. And
I think when I look back at my companies
that have succeeded, this is what they've
done. They didn't always know how to do
it, but they did it. And I think it's
actually indisputably a great thing to do.
Um, we're not gonna have female founders
unless they get more experience. They're
not gonna get experience unless they get
great experiences in other startups. So
sometimes, I think it's really important
to prioritize these things.
That's just my view. Um, can I talk to
you for a minute? This is a big one.
Back to people. You think you're
building a startup to create a product.
You think you're gonna launch your
product and you're building technology.
You're actually building people, you're
building a team. And if you don't take
care of managing that team, it's gonna
come over you like a tidal wave. You're
gonna have people coming up to you, "Can I
talk to you for a minute?" That's kind of
like what the symbol is. People want to
take aside, people wanna know, "Where am
I? What's my standing in the company?
What's my position in the company? What's
my role? Why is this person getting that
role?" Here's an idea I have. That will
happen if you don't work on managing the
people. There's a really great paper
called the Scarf Method. One of the things
I do is I love C. E. O.coaches who really
help founders grow as managers. The Scarf
Method is something that he recommends. I
read it's sort of a neurological approach
to how to manage people, what people need
to be managed. If you just type
S-C-A-R_F...you'll find the paper. If you
don't, you can e-mail me. I'll send it to
you. It's just about what people need and
you'll find if you take time to think
about how you're managing the people on
your team, and you are actually now
managing a group of humans. Let's say you
raise more money, you take your company a
little further, um, you're gonna hire
people. I do advice not to hire people
very quickly especially if you've never
managed anyone. I think you're gonna
perfect it and you'll mistakes and those
mistakes will become part of you as
another manager, as a good manager, and
you'll be able to hire someone else and
retain someone else. So you'll make
mistakes. I think you should make mistakes
early so that you go and then you can
correct that. And it's not at a mission
critical time. So that's a big one. If you
see yourself surrounded with "Can I talk
to you for a minute?" Out of your work,
then you realize, "OK, I need to step back
and I need to figure out am I a managing
the people around me? What's happening?"
Because, you know, the startup can be such
an intense, some very empathetic.
It's very intense environment. You feel
like, you know, what you're doing is
extremely important. You lose perspective
almost for everything else around you, and
that's actually really important. It's
really important to be in that no
perspective place because that's how you
can, I think, execute and do super human
and great things. But it's really
important to step back and realize like,
"I'm managing people, not just the
product. " And many of my founders, many
founders I meet or engineers, it's just
not something that they've done. But if
you can do that, you'll be great and no
one will be able to kick out of the C. E.
O.spot. Um, the equinox. So the equinox is
something I like to think of is like that
time horizon, the line between when you
don't have to make money and when you do.
So personally, I like companies that make
money. I like companies that have business
models. I like companies that like to
think about the business model ahead of
time even if, I think there's no greater
value in what you do than if somebody is
willing to pay. So I like companies with
business models. However, I have
definitely funded things without business
models and they've even had a really good
idea, a clear idea of what they're gonna
do. Even if they don't do in the first
year, they may not do it till the third
year, but they have a very clear idea of
what they're gonna do. And I know there's
a lot of examples out there of companies
that don't have that. But I think you'll
find, you really control your destiny when
you do control the money, either you
control raising the money, some people are
really good at raising money, or you're in
control of making money. So the equinox is
like that time between it's like
acceptable to not make any money and when
it is. And I think that's really important
to recognize. Many founders don't
recognize with enough time when that
equinox has passed. So there is a certain
amount of time where it's all potential.
And investors invest in potential. You
know, a very rare... I mean, they like to
look for what they like to look for. But a
lot of that is what's potentially, you
know, what's potentially gonna be valuable
and they project on to a company.
Now, there's a certain time when you can
do and a time when you need to stop. And
as founder, you need to say like, "This is
the time we need to cross over 'cause we
wanna control our destiny. " And I think
that's how I think of the equinox. I think
it's a very important concept that I try
to help my companies with. So, I'm
wrapping up. Cosmos. Um, this is really
meant to be about inspiration. So I don't
know if anybody is watching Cosmos on TV.
It's so good, you know. It's so good. And
I went back and watch the old Cosmos. I
remember growing up how much I love the
old, the original Cosmos, and that really
had a profound impact on me. And if you're
watching Cosmos, and I really recommend
everybody do it, it's on Fox. It's just...
The head of the planetarium is a narrator.
And I recommend going to the Dark Matter
Show, actually at the Hayden Planetarium.
It's really extraordinary. And what I
think of when I'm inspired by Cosmos is
just the big problems that aren't solved,
and how, you know, on earth, we're...we
don't really understand the edge of the
absorbable universe yet, and how deeply
interesting that is to me, and the
problems of carbon and all the kind of
things that are outlined through the
narrative of that show. And I don't know
what-- That inspires me. That inspires
me, so if I see like lots of little apps,
I sort of like, "What is this? This is
lots of the same stuff. " I really love to
see breakthrough things, I think people
really truly are. You really only are
going to achieve as you big as you do
dream, and that's very corny. But I think
a lot of what I do is look for people that
have really big dreams and they know how
to build for today to get there and they
know how to look at and say like, "I just
don't wanna do another app. I actually
want to do something that is meaningful. "
Whether it's maybe thinking about design
and breakthrough ware, whatever you view
as meaningful, whatever you view as
inspirational.
It's really important, I think, when you
starting your company to have that spark.
Because if you don't have that, it's going
to show. The authenticity shows. It takes
Pixar five years to make a movie. Why are
they the best movies? 'Cause they took
five years and they're made with a lot of
heart, a lot people, and a lot of ideas.
And there are so many companies right now.
To level up, you have to do that. It's
going to be very hard to level up if more
people aren't doing that. So whether
you're watching Cosmos or you're finding
some other way to inspire you, you know, I
really encourage everybody to dream big
because you could get jobs and jobs would
be a lot easier, a lot easier. Startups
are really hard. So if you're gonna do it,
you gotta go for it and that's what I
wanna see. So that's all. I just wanna say
thanks. E-mail me if you have any
questions on what I said. I hope you don't
quote me though 'cause that would, you
know, I don't wanna debate it, you know. I
just wanna put my shoot out there and see
what happens. But, you know, if anything I
said interests you, I'd love to talk to
anybody. Thank you, Y. C. Thank you, 53,
for helping me and this wonderful
illustrator named Julia Lu who just put
together these incredible visuals. Thanks
again.