Title: How to Operate with Keith Rabois (How to Start a Startup 2014: Lecture 14)
Video ID: w19IBxDu2Y4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w19IBxDu2Y4
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-04-19T20:57:40Z
Duration: PT46M53S
Views: 26974
Likes: 583
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Startup, Lecture, Stanford, Class, Sam Altman, How to start a startup, startup school, advice, keith rabois, how to operate
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1507

Description:
Lecture Transcript: http://tech.genius.com/Keith-rabois-lecture-14-how-to-operate-annotated

What should the CEO be doing on a day to day basis? How do you make sure the company is moving in the right direction? 
Keith Rabois, Partner at Khosla Ventures and former COO of Square, tackles the nitty gritty - How to Operate. Lots of actionable takeaways from this lecture!

See the slides and readings at http://startupclass.samaltman.com/courses/lec14

Discuss this lecture: http://startupclass.co/cou

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Um, so I'm going to talk about how to
operate. So I've watched some of the
prior classes and I'm going to assume
that you've already sort of hired a
bunch of relentlessly resourceful people
that you built a product that at least
some people love that you've probably
raised some capital and now you're
trying to build a company. So you're
you've been forging a product and now
you got to forge a company. And I'd
actually argue forging a company is much
more difficult than forging a product.
Basic reason is people are irrational.
So you probably all know this. Either
your parents, your significant other,
your brother or sister, your teacher,
somebody in your life is irrational.
Building a company is basically taking
all the irrational people you know,
putting them in one building and then
living with them 12 hours a day at
least. So it's very challenging. Now
there's techniques for coping with that
and some people get good at it and some
people don't. But that's where really
what operating is about. So basically
what you're doing when you build a
company is you're building an engine.
And at first you have a drawing
literally on a whiteboard and you're
architecting it and it looks very
conceptually clean and beautiful and
pretty.
But when you start actually translating
to practice you actually it looks more
like this and you're holding it together
with duct tape and it takes a lot of
heroic efforts of people to actually
hold it together. That's why people work
80, 100 hours a week is that heroic
efforts is actually necessary to keep
this thing together because you don't
actually yet have polished metal in
place. Eventually, you want to construct
a high performance machine. A machine
that actually almost nobody really has
to worry about every hour, every minute.
And you know, as we used to joke about
eBay that if Martians took over eBay, it
would take like six months for the world
to notice. That's what eventually what
you want to get to. Or as Warren Buffett
says, you know, build a company that
idiots can run because eventually they
will.
So this is what you want. Uh basically a
performance machine that idiots can run.
Now as a leader, what is your real job?
What's your role? Strictly speaking,
there's only one book ever written that
actually explains how to do this. It's a
little old. It's written in 1982 by Andy
Grove. It's quite famous and quite
successful. And his definition of what
your job is is to maximize the output of
an organization. Your organization that
you're responsible for. So CEO is
everything. And a VP would be a part of
the organization and the organizations
around you. So if you're a VPE, you
actually are responsible for the
performer to the product team too or the
marketing team because you have
influence there. So this is how you
measure people and you want to focus on
the output, not the input. U the old
adage about measuring not measuring
motion and confusing that with progress.
You're measuring only progress. And this
is going to sound like a fancy and
glamorous thing to do. Um maybe people
get excited about managing a whole large
organization and being responsible for
the output. But in practice, what you're
going to learn today hopefully is that
it's more about things like ordering
smoothies, teaching your receptionist
how to answer the phone properly, and
serving as a $10 an hour task rabbit for
your employees. So, let's talk about
that. So, at first, when you start a
company, everything's going to feel like
a mess. And it really should. If you
have too much process, too much
predictability, you're probably not
innovating fast enough and creatively
enough. So, it should feel like every
day there's a new problem. And what
you're doing is fundamentally triaging.
So some things will look like a problem
and they're actually a cold. They're
just going to go away. So somebody's
annoyed about this or that. That may be
a cold and you shouldn't stress about it
and you certainly shouldn't allocate a
lot of your time to it. And some things
are going to present themselves as
colds, but just like in the emergency
room, if they're not diagnosed properly,
they actually can become fatal. So what
I'm going to try to do is help give you
frameworks for thinking about which
things are colds and which things are
potentially fatal.
So one of the most important things I
learned at Square is actually a concept
of editing. And this is, I think, the
best metaphor I've ever seen in like 14
years of running stuff of how to think
about your job. It's natural. It's a
natural metaphor. So, it's easy to take
with you every day. And actually, it's
easy to transmit to each of your
employees so that they can figure out
whether they're editing or writing. It's
a natural construct. You generally know
when someone asks you to do something,
am I more writing or am I more editing?
So, an editor is is the best metaphor
for your job. And we're going to talk
about the specific things you're doing
in editing. The first thing an editor
does and you've probably all had this
experience in school is you submit a
paper to a TA a draft to your friend.
The first thing an editor does is they
take out a red pen or nowadays you know
online and they start striking things
basically eliminating things. The most
important task of an editor is to
simplify simplify simplify and that
usually means omitting things. So that's
your job too is to clarify and simplify
for everybody on your team. The more you
simplify the better people will perform.
People cannot understand and keep track
of a complicated set of initiatives. So
you've got to distill it down to one,
two, or three things and use a framework
that they can repeat. They can repeat
without thinking about. They can repeat
to their friends. They can repeat at
night.
Don't accept the excuse of complexity. A
lot of people will tell you that, well,
this is too challenging. This is too
complicated. Well, yeah, I know other
people simplify, but that's not for me.
This is a complicated business. They're
wrong. You can change the world in 140
characters.
You can build the most important
companies in history in a very simple to
describe concept. You can market
products in less than about 50
characters. There's no reason why you
can't build your company the same way.
So force yourself to simplify every
initiative, every product, every
marketing, every everything you do and
and basically take out that red and
start eliminating stuff. Second thing is
what editors do is they ask you
clarifying questions. So when you
present a paper to somebody, what do
they usually do? They they find some
ambiguity somewhere and they say, "Well,
do you really mean this? Do you mean
that? Do you have an example of this?"
That's what your job is. So you're in a
meeting and people are going to look to
you and the real thing you do is you
actually ask a lot of questions and they
can be simple basic questions like
should we try this 7 days a week um or 6
days. They can be fundamental questions
like where's our competitive advantage
here? We try to do this actually as
investors too. Um, some investors will
ask you uh a billion questions about a
billion things and they'll have you do
diligence forever. We try to narrow down
to what are the one, two, or three, four
things that actually matter for this
company and only focus on those things.
So, it allows us to be more decisive and
we can make decisions rapidly. It allows
us not to distract you from your day
job, which is actually building a
company. And yet, I think we still get
to the higher fidel highest fidelity
answer because we don't have all these
extra extraneous pieces of details and
data. Now, it's hard. is something you
have to practice. But when you get good
good at it, every step you eliminate,
Andy Grove estimated that you can
improve performance by 30 to 50%. The
next thing you do is allocate resources.
So in the editing construct, this is
what editors do all the time. They take
editors from the M East and covering the
M East and they move them to Silicon
Valley because Silicon Valley is now now
more interesting or they move them to a
sports section because they want to
compete on the basis of sports with
other journals and other publications.
So that can be top down where I take a
bunch of allocate resources and people
and say we're now going over here. We're
going to compete on this basis and then
next month, next quarter, next year I'm
like, well that Middle East coverage is
getting boring and bland. We don't want
to do that anymore. Let's go chase after
something else. Or it can be bottom up
just like journalists mostly come up
with their own stories. The people who
work with you generally should be coming
up with their own initiatives. So a
reporter will generally who covers
Google come up with the interesting
stories that they're hearing in the
ether and propose one or two to their
editor for approval. But it's not like
the editor saying go cover Google and
this is the angle I want. Once in a
while they do that, but that's not the
day the day the meat and potatoes of
what a journalist does every day. Your
goal over time is to actually use less
red ink every day. So, one way of
measuring how well you're doing and
communicating to your colleagues about
what's important and what's not, what
why some things are important, some
things are not, is how much red ink
you're pulling out every day. It's okay
if you have a bad day and the red ink's
all over the place, but it's not okay if
the red ink next month is more than it
was last month and next quarter is more
than this. So, measure yourself of how
much red ink you're creating. The other
thing that's very important that
actually isn't as intuitive to a lot of
people is the job of an editor is to
ensure consistent voice. So, if any of
you read The Economist, you can tell
that there's one consistent voice. You
can pick up any article, any post in The
Economist, and it feels like it was
written by the same person. Ideally,
your company should feel like on your
website, in your PR release, on your
packaging if it's a physical product,
anywhere on your recruiting pages should
feel like it was written by one person.
That's extremely difficult to do. And at
first, you're going to be tempted to do
that yourself, which is okay for a
founder to do that him or herself
initially. Over time, you do not want to
be doing all of the consistent voice
editing by yourself. You want to train
people so they can recognize the
differences in voice. So, if you see
this website page, it looks very
different than the recruiting page. You
start asking questions. Why is that? Is
the reporting messed up? Is one of the
leaders over here not really
understanding the voice of the company?
So, you got to you have to fix that over
time. But you want to start with the
objective of everything should feel
exactly the same. It's quite quite
difficult in practice. Almost every
company has at least one piece of the
organization that isn't exactly on the
same voice at Apple which is notori you
know under even under Steve's regime
which was notorious for getting this
right. If you ask someone who worked at
Apple talk ask them about the internal
tools about recruiting. Do they really
feel like Apple products all of them
will tell you no. So you never 100% but
you definitely want to get as close to
that as you can. The next complicated
topic is delegating. So just like the
other thing I like about the metaphor of
editing is writers do most of the work
in the world. Editors are not actually
writing most of the content in any
publication. So that's actually true of
your company. You are not going to do
most of the work. You shouldn't be doing
most of the work. And the way you get
out of doing most of the work is you
actually delegate. Now the problem with
delegating is that actually you're
responsible for everything. So as CEO
founder there is no excuse. There's no
like that's that department over there,
this person over there screwed up.
You're always responsible for every
single thing, especially when things go
wrong. So, how do you both delegate but
not abdicate? It's a pretty tricky
challenge. And both are sins. Like, if
you overdelegate or and you abdicate or
you micromanage, those are both sins.
So, I'm going to give you a couple
techniques for solving this.
First, and this actually comes from high
output management in Andy Grove, is
what's known as task relevant maturity.
It's kind of a fancy phrase for
basically has this person ever done this
before? It's really simple. like how
mature is this person in doing
something? And the more they've done the
exact same task before, the more sort of
rope you're going to give them and the
less and the more they're trying
something new, the more you're going to
actually instruct them and consistently
constantly regularly monitor. So that's
kind of a basic concept, but it's worth
keeping in the back of your brain. The
interesting implication, and this is
pretty radical, is that any executive,
any CEO should not have one management
style. Your management style actually
needs to be dictated by your employee.
So with one particular person, you may
be very much a micromanager because
they're quite low on this scale. And
with another person, you may be
delegating a lot because they're
actually quite mature on this scale. So
it's actually a good thing if you do
reference checks on somebody and half
the people you call say they're a
micromanager and the other half say they
actually give me a lot of
responsibility. That's actually not a
that's a that's a feature, not a bug. I
didn't understand that at first at all.
like I used to be befuddled when people
would do reference checks on me and come
back with this like complicated uh
mosaic and basically finally figured out
that maybe I was actually doing my job
correctly. So then of course taught
other people that this is the way to do
it. Um a more nuanced answer though um
that I've sort of came up with is how
how do you make decisions and delegating
versus doing it yourself? You don't want
to do it yourself too often. So what
I've basically borrowed from Peter, it's
my first 2x two uh matrix ever in my
life. Um but he taught me something at
least. Um is you basically sort your
your own level of conviction about a
decision on a grid. You know, extremely
high, extremely low. There's times when
you know something's a mistake. And
there's times where you wouldn't do it
that way, but you have no real idea what
the whe whether it's the right or wrong
answer. And then there's a consequence
dimension. There are things that if you
make the wrong decision are actually
catastrophic to your company and you
will fail. there are things that are
pretty low impact that really at the end
of the day aren't going to make a big
difference at least initially. So what I
basically believe is that where there's
low consequences and you have very low
confidence in your own opinion you
should absolutely delegate and delegate
completely let people make mistakes and
learn. On the other side, obviously,
where the consequences are extremely
dramatic and you have extremely high
conviction that you're right, you
actually can't let your junior colleague
like make a mistake. You're ultimately
responsible for that mistake. And if
it's really important, you just can't
allow that to happen. Now, the best way
to do that is to actually explain your
thinking, the why. Um, it's easy to
shortcut when you get busy explaining
wise of the world, but it's very
important to try. Um when I was at
LinkedIn um I had a colleague uh who's
quite quite talented um but occasionally
would get annoyed if if I didn't exactly
agree with his opinion on something. And
so I'd spent a lot of time trying to
persuade him uh of why I was making a
decision a certain way. And his wild
card, the card he would ultimately call
out if I didn't quite persuade him was
he's like, "Okay, you're the boss." And
that meant to me like I was burning a
lot of social capital. Every time he
said that, I knew I was like really
creating a thin line and that ultimately
that was going to backfire if I did that
too often. So, you want to track the
times that you're doing that. An example
of this is Square is one of my favorite
people in the world and my second hire,
first marketing hire, had this program
he wanted to run called inner square,
which basically allowed people uh to
give out uh Square merchants to give out
10 other squares to their uh it's
imagine a food truck outside, put like
10 squares on the counter and people
could just grab them. And Kyle had this
great idea. this would be an awesome
marketing program. Squares would spread
squares to other people. Um, and you
know, to some extent the it was on
brand, so it didn't have catastrophic
consequences. Each of these 10 squares
didn't cost that much money. So,
financially we could afford to do it.
But at that time, my 10 years of
experience said there's just no way this
is going to work in a meaningful enough
um scale to move our metrics enough. And
I actually would prefer we don't not do
this. But Kyle was so excited about this
that I decided to just let him do it. Um
he learned that actually when you
measure this thing it's not massive. It
doesn't create like massive value for
the company. It did require a fair
amount of operational complexity to ship
all these squares to people and figure
out how to get them squares etc. But it
allowed him to be excited about his job
and to learn how to filter future ideas.
So it was totally worth letting him make
the quote unquote mistake.
The next and most uh possibly most
important thing you do is actually edit
the team. So these are the people that
you work with and nobody's going to have
a perfect team and you're certainly not
going to start that way. So what I'm
going to try to do is maximize the
probability for success in editing the
team. So I like this idea of barrels and
ammunition. So most companies once they
get into hiring mode, as Sam pointed
out, you should defer that for a while,
but once you do, they just hire a lot of
people and they're like expect and you
expect that as you add people, your
throughput, your horsepower, your
velocity of shipping things is going to
increase. Turns out it doesn't work that
way. Usually when you hire more
engineers, you actually don't get that
much more done. You actually sometimes
get less done. You hire more designers,
you definitely don't get more done. You
get less done per day. Uh we can talk
about why. Um but uh so the reason why
is that most people, most great people
even are actually ammunition. But what
you need in your company are barrels.
And you can only shoot through the
number of unique barrels you have. So
that's how the velocity of your company
improves is by adding barrels. And then
you stock them with ammunition and then
you can do a lot. So if you go from a
one barrel company, which is mostly how
you start, to a two barrel company,
suddenly you get twice as many things
done per day, per week, per quarter. If
you go to three barrels, great. If you
go to four barrels, awesome. Barrels are
incredibly difficult to find. But when
you have them like give them lots of
equity, promote them, take them to
dinner every week because they're
virtually like uh irreplaceable because
they're also very culturally specific.
So a barrel at one company may not be a
barrel at another company because one of
the ways and the definition of a barrel
is they can take an idea from conception
all the way through shipping and bring
people with them and that's a very
culturally specific opportunity uh
specific skill set rather. So um two
questions probably are occurring to you
is how do you figure out who's a barrel
and who's not one is you start actually
with a very small set of
responsibilities. It can be fairly
trivial. It can be something like I want
to reward the engineers that are in my
office at 9:00 at night every night with
a nice cold fresh smoothie. This is
actually a real example. I was
frustrated. Um, our engineers were
working really hard at Square and you
know maybe 20% to 30% would stay very
late into the evening and I wanted to
sort we already had served them dinner
but I wanted to give them something cool
to reward them. You could think about
alcohol but that's a little complicated.
So smoothies were probably a little bit
better than the pizza which drains you
of energy. Uh, but nobody could get
smoothies in my office to show up at
9:00 sharp, that were cold, that tasted
good and delivered in the right place so
that engineers would find them. You'
think this is simple, but in fact it
like took months to get this right. So
then we had an in we had an intern start
and I think on a second day I was
explaining this problem and he he said,
"Well, I'll do it." And I was like
looking at him like, "There's no way.
I've seen my office manager fail, my
assistant fail, all who were actually
pretty good. Um, this just isn't going
to happen." And then lo and behold, that
night they show up on time, cold,
delivered at the right place. And my
first instinct was great. Not not
nothing about the smoothies, but okay,
now I can actually give them something
more important and consequential and
complicated to do. And that's what you
actually want to do with every single
employee every single day is expand the
scope of their responsibilities until it
breaks. And it will break. Everybody,
like I couldn't run the world, like
everybody has like some level of
complexity that they can handle. And
what you want to do is keep expanding it
until you see where it breaks. And
that's the role that they should stay
in, that level of sophistication. But
some people will surprise you. There
will be people who you don't expect
without with different backgrounds,
without a lot of experience that just
can handle enormously complicated tasks.
And so keep testing that and pushing the
envelope. The other signal to look for
is once you've hired someone is with an
open office, just watch who goes up to
other people's desks, particularly
people that they don't report to. If
people start going to your desk, someone
individual employees desk and they don't
report to them, it's a sign that they
believe that that person can help them.
So if you see that consistently, those
are your barrels. Just promote them,
give them more opportunity as fast as
you can.
[Applause]
The other question everybody asks about
people is when do you hire somebody
above somebody and when do you sort of
mentor somebody or when do you need to
replace somebody? And the way that the
way to think about this is every company
has its own growth rate and every
individual has their own growth rate. So
some companies that are very successful,
let's say LinkedIn, LinkedIn was always
a very linear company. It never went
like this. So for example, I joined
LinkedIn 18 months after we launched and
we had only 1.5 million users, which in
a social product is a very small number.
And when I joined, I was the 27th
employee. When I left 2 and a half years
later, we only had 57 employees. In
contrast, when I joined Square as the
20th employee,
two and a half years later, we had like
250300 employees. So each company has
its own velocity on this curve. And if
the company's going like this, you can
only keep people in the roles that their
own personal learning curve is going
like this. On the other hand, if the
company's growing like this, anybody
whose learning curve is faster than
that, you can keep giving them the same
role to do. So always track like the
individual slope of an employee and the
company's growth rate.
Now that you have your barrels
identified, so you're going to pick out
the people that can really take an idea
that you have in the back of your head,
scope it out, run with it, make it
happen, ship it, and it's perfect. Um,
where do you aim these barrels? So, I'm
going to argue that you really need to
spend a lot of time focusing people. Uh,
this is something I learned from Peter
Teal actually. He used to insist at
PayPal that every single person could
only do exactly one thing. And we all
rebelled. Every single person in the
company rebelled to this idea because
it's so unnatural. It's so different
than every other company where people
want to do multiple things and
especially as you get more senior, you
want to definitely want to do multiple
things and you're you're like you feel
it's like insulting to be asked to do
just one thing. And Peter would enforce
this pretty strictly. He'd basically
say, I will not talk to you about
anything else except this one thing I've
assigned to you. I don't want to hear
about how great you're doing over here.
Like just shut up and Peter would run
away. Um and then um focus until you
conquer this one problem. And the
insight behind this is that most people
will solve problems that they understand
how to solve. Roughly speaking, they
will solve B+ problems instead of A+
problems. A+ problems are high impact
problems for your company, but they're
difficult. You don't wake up in the
morning with a solution. So, you tend to
procrastinate them. So, imagine you wake
up in the morning, you create a list of
things to do today. There's usually the
A+ one on the top of the list, but you
never get around to it. And so, you
solve the second and third and over an
entire company of hundreds of people
that just cascades. So, you have a
company that's always solving B+ things,
which does mean you grow and does mean
you add value, but you never really
create that breakthrough idea because no
one is spending 100% of their time
banging their head against the wall
every day until they solve it. So, I
highly recommend some version of that.
You can be less stringent. You could be
like you can get three things to work
on, but there I would still track at
least the concept of what would happen
if you only gave everybody one thing to
prioritize.
Now, because you can't make decisions,
you don't want to be making all these
decisions yourself. You have to create
tools that enable people to make
decisions at the same level ideally of
fidelity that you would make them
yourself. So, how do you create scale
and leverage? First thing I'd recommend
is building a dashboard. This is an old
square dashboard. It actually looks
pretty presentable even today. Um, the
the construct of a dashboard first of
all should be drafted by the founder.
You need to basically simplify the value
proposition in the company's metrics for
success on a whiteboard. You can have
other people build the dashboard. I
don't actually care about that. But you
need to draw it out like what does
business success look look to us and
what are the key inputs to those and
then have someone create something that
is very intuitive for every single
person in the company including customer
support to use. And then the key metric
of whether you've succeeded is what
fraction of your employees use that
dashboard every day. If it's actually
useful, it should be close to 100%. It's
not going to be probably 100%. But you
want to measure that. Just like you have
quality scores for all your other KPIs
with users, the dashboard needs to be as
intuitive as it is as your product is
for users.
Other things, uh, wait, hold on. Uh,
yeah, let's go back one second. Another
concept is transparency. And people
will, uh, often That's weird. We'll fix
it. Okay. Transparency people talk a lot
about um it's kind of a a goal that
everybody ascribes to but when push
comes to shove very few people actually
adhere to it. So let me let me walk
through a little bit of transparency and
different stages of transparency.
Metrics are the first step. So everybody
in your company absolutely should have
access to every single thing that's
going on. Other things that I like to do
are take your board decks and as you get
more formal the board decks will get
more complicated and actually review
every single slide with every single
employee after the board meeting. You
can strip out the compensation
information if you really want to, but
every other slide you should go through
with the entire employee base and
explain it. And if you can remember some
of the feedback you got from your board,
that's really cool to pass on. Another
thing we did at Square, as your company
scales, everybody's not going to get
invited to every meeting, but they're
going to want to go to every meeting.
The way you scale that is you create
notes for every meeting and you send it
to the entire company. So we created a
notes atas for every single meeting
involving more than two people. Someone
would write notes and send it to the
entire company. So people felt like as
the company added employees they could
continue to monitor and track what was
interesting, what was going on and they
never felt excluded hopefully. The other
thing is like even like details around
conference rooms. Every conference room
at Square has glass walls because as
soon as you have regular walls people
wonder what's going on. It's amazing
like if they can see who's actually in
the meeting and who's meeting with who
when, they don't start, they don't worry
nearly as much as what's going on behind
those closed doors. Stripe, you may have
seen a blog post by I think Patrick
wrote it um about email transparency,
about actually allowing everybody to
have access to email. That's pretty far
out there, but it's actually got
interesting, you know, certain merits to
it. I would all call the tactics that
you read about and hear about as sort of
minimal viable transparency. I actually
think you could push the envelope a lot
more. Steve Jobs tried this at Next. he
actually tried transparent compensation.
I actually think although next didn't do
extremely well, it wasn't the the real
reason wasn't because of the experiment
around compensation transparency and
that there's a lot of merit to that. And
you know the critique of like
compensation transparency is often well
we want people to be teammates and work
together and collaborate. And if you
look in the sports world though where
people are actually teammates and they
do have to collaborate, all of their
compensation is completely public. In
fact, each of us can look up anybody's
compensation in the sports world and get
it exactly accurate and somehow it seems
to work. So, I'm not totally bought into
the idea that you need to keep transport
uh compensation non-transparent.
Then, finally, metrics. So, you want to
measure things. Um, you want to measure
outputs, not inputs. And again, you
should dictate this yourself. You should
draft the dashboard to tie this all
together. one important concept or what
are known as pairing metrics or pairing
indicators which is if you measure one
thing and only one thing the company
tends to optimize to that and often at
the expense of something else that's
important. A classic example in payments
and financial services is around risk.
It's really easy to give a risk team the
objective and say we want to lower our
fraud rate. It sounds great until they
start treating every single user in this
audience as a suspect user because they
want to lower their fraud rate. So they
require each of you to call them up on
the phone and give them more
supplemental information and fax in
things and you have the lowest fraud
rate in the world. You also have the
worst, you know, sort of customer
satisfaction score. So what you want to
measure at the same time as your fraud
rate is your false positive rate. That
forces the team to actually innovate.
Similarly, you can give recruiters
metrics around hiring and guess what?
You'll have a lot of people come in
through interviews, but if you're not
tracking the quality of hires, you may
be very unhappy with the quality of
people you're interviewing or the people
you're giving offers to. So you always
want to create the opposite as an
indication and measure both and the
people who are responsible for that team
need to be measured on both.
Finally around metrics um one insight
I've had over my career is what you you
kind of want to look for the anomalies.
You don't actually want to look for the
expected behavior. So the a famous
example was at PayPal. None of the top
10 markets that the company was planning
to go after included eBay. But one day,
someone noticed that 54 power sellers
had actually handwritten into their eBay
listings, "Please pay me with PayPal,"
and brought this to the attention of the
the executive team at the time. The
first reaction of the executive team
was, "What the hell is going on? Let's
kick them out of the system. That's not
our focus." Fortunately, I I think David
Saxs came back the next day and said, "I
think we found our market. Let's
actually build tools for these power
sellers. instead of forcing them to
write into their listing, pay me with
PayPal, why don't we have an HTML button
that they can just insert. Well, that
started to work. And then he said, well,
actually, why don't we make them insert
it? Why why should we make them insert
it all the time? Why don't we just
automatically insert it for them? So,
they can insert it once and then every
single listing they they have forever,
it'll just automatically appear there.
So, that became the success for PayPal.
Similarly, I was at LinkedIn and I saw
this stat that made no sense to me. The
UI of the site was a little bit
different back then, but 25% of all
clicks, maybe 30% of all clicks from the
homepage were people going to their own
profile and that made no sense
whatsoever. I mean like the it was a
settings like you had to literally go to
the right margin, find a link and it was
25 to 30% of every single click at
scale. I mean so this is like
statistically valid stuff and it made no
sense whatsoever. I never never have
seen like a UI perform that way. And I I
I I kind of went around for weeks trying
to figure this out. And then someone
very smart, actually was Max Levchin
said something to me and I was like,
he's like, "It's vanity." And I'm like,
"Aha, people were looking at themselves
in the mirror." That's a pretty good
answer. So, because they weren't editing
their profile, nobody has like something
to edit every day in their profile, but
they actually were just looking at
themselves in the mirror every day
because it made them feel good. And then
you could actually test that hypothesis
and say, "Well, if I have more content,
do I look at myself in the mirror more
often?" Turns out you did. If you had
more endorsements, did you look at
yourself in the mirror more often? Turns
out you did. So, we actually figured out
like what was actually underneath a
utilitarian product that the product
team thought they were building was
actually a lot of emotional vanity. They
didn't exactly translate it to the best
possible feature like the PayPal
example, which you couldn't easily put a
button said be more vain today, you
know, on the homepage. That would
probably not work perfectly. So, it
never really like took off the way the
PayPal example did, but it really
clarified what the user what users of
the product really wanted. And we
wouldn't have found that without looking
for anomalous data. The final topic I
want to talk about is details. Um and
there's uh in my assigned reading
there's a great book I really like by
Bill Walsh um called the score takes
care of itself. And the basic point um
of the book is that if you get all the
details right, you don't worry about how
to build a billion dollar business, how
to have a hund00 million in revenue, how
to have a billion users. That's a
byproduct of getting all the details of
what you do every day to be excellent.
So the example he talks about in the
book that really resonated with me was
he took over the 49ers in 1979. They
were the worst team in football. I
believe they were two and 14 the year
before, which is really bad for those of
you who don't know football. In the next
10 years, he managed to transform the
team into the NFL's best. Won three
Super Bowls. And what's the first thing
he did to start going from a terrible
team to the best team ever in many ways?
He actually taught the receptionist how
to answer the phone properly. He wrote a
three-page memo about how to actually
answer the phone. Now, that may sound
absurd, but his point was if the
organization as a whole does everything
exactly the right way, then receivers,
for example, will start running their
routes at 7 and 1/2 yards, not 7 yards,
not 8 yards, and that actually will
matter. And if everybody on the team
executes exactly up to the same standard
of performance, you'll have a
organization that is performing at the
highest possible level. And then with
enough random variation, the highest
possible performance team will do the
high the best. So the way you translate
this to a company are to a lot of
details that may not matter. They may
not seem that they matter superficially.
Most people would agree about details
matter when it when it uh faces the
user. But where the real debate is on
things that don't face the user. So
Steve Jobs famously in the Mac insisted
upon an immaculate circuit design board.
You can read about this in various
books. The Mac, for those of you who
don't remember, the Mac, probably
everybody here, but some of you may have
seen it, actually couldn't be opened. So
the circuit board design couldn't be
seen by any single person in the world.
There was no way to open the Mac except
the people who worked at Apple. And
Steve insisted that it be absolutely
perfect and beautiful. That's the kind
of detail obsession that this sort of
philosophy of building a company
requires. Examples that may be more
practical for you instead of circuit
boards are things like what food do you
serve people? This actually matters more
than you might guess. When people don't
like the food you serve them, what do
they do? They gossip. They go complain
to their friends. They go walk over to
someone's desk. And all of a sudden at
lunch, what they're complaining about is
they're mostly spending time gossiping
and complaining instead of
brainstorming. So you don't have this
serendipitous like idea matching another
serendipous idea that creates a spark.
Instead, they're all wandering and
willowing around. So the best thing you
can do is actually give people the food
they want or food that's good for them
that makes them more productive. So it
may seem a lot like this glorious job
you thought you have is actually more
like running around being a task rabbit
for people, but it's to to take the
things off their plate that are a
distraction so that they can be high
performance machines. And if you take
enough things away from people that
distract them and give them the tools to
be successful, all of a sudden your
organization produces a lot more.
Similarly, another example that's often
got wrong is office space.
So, one natural instinct is when you
need an office, you just have an office
manager or someone on your team go out
and find offices and they'll go on tours
with agents and they'll come back with
photos and ideas. You need to do that
yourself. The office environment that
people live in and work in every day
dictates your culture and how people
make decisions. It dictates how hard
people work. There's almost no important
more decision other than what company
you're going to be than what's the
office environment you're actually in.
And most people don't do that. And then
the final thing and then I'll take some
questions is around effort. Ultimately I
don't believe that you can build a
company without a lot of effort and that
you need to lead by example. So Bill
Walsh the first chapter of his book is
get gets asked this question of how do
you know whether you're doing your job
and this is the answer he gives coaches
that used to ask him that question.
So if this is what you feel like every
day you're probably on the right track.
And if that doesn't sound appetizing,
you probably shouldn't start a company,
truthfully. All right, with that, I'm
done with the prepared part. Um, let me
see if anybody has questions I can try
to be helpful with. Any questions? Yes.
So, you talked about making compensation
transparent. How would you do that,
especially when people um equate
themselves to the value, you know, of
how much is? Um, I would I would do it
in probably bands. So you could do it
either just everybody in the company
gets paid the same or you could have
like all discipline all engineers or you
could do it by experience like extreme
the way Steve did it actually at next
was there was a high band and a low band
and you either had a lot of experience
or low experience and that was it. So
low band back then you know now would
probably be like $85,000 kind of
everybody just flatly gets paid $85,000
and if you're super experienced
everybody gets paid like 130,000 and
that's just it like is sort of the next
translated for inflation.
I mean like instead of food, what's the
like top three details that people care
about? You'd be amazed. Well, yeah. So,
the question was besides food, what
other kind of details do people care
about? Um, the laptops they use, I mean,
this is now the default that everybody
has, but five years ago, it was a
benefit to give people high quality
machines as opposed to optimizing on
cost and having Dell machines and ugly
monitors, just as an example. So if you
think about all these people that are
relentlessly resourceful, incredibly
talented in a massively competitive uh
ecosystem competing for talent, you want
to give the people the best possible
tools to do the best possible job. And
so ri rigorously thinking through how do
I make people more successful? What
things do they not need to be working on
that are distracting and what things can
I actually give them that make them more
valuable per day? And then just break
that down every day and solve that stuff
yourself.
So when you're in a startup environment,
how do you optimize for those things?
because you know resources are scarce
and it's a good it's a good question. I
actually think that you should start
first of all you must have your own
office. I don't believe ever in shared
office spaces. Peter talks a little bit
about this that every startup every good
startup is a cult and it's really hard
to create a cult if you're sharing space
with people because a cult means that
you think you're better than everybody
else in the world and you have a special
way of doing things that's different
than everybody else in the world and if
you're sharing physical space with
people it's very hard to inculcate that.
So I I would start there. But it is a
prioritization question when you have
every every company has a scarce
resource. It's just a question of
magnitude like how many zeros uh are you
paying attention to? You know, probably
not $10 expenditures, but $100, then
$1,000, then 10,000, then a million,
then 10 million starts being your
rounding error. So what I would do is
figure out like what's most important
and a high quality office that creates a
good vibe that allows you to recruit
people because recruits are very savvy
about this. They walk into your office
and they can tell a lot about the
culture instantly. I sometimes I walk in
a company office and I can tell often
whether I'm going to invest as soon as I
walk in. Like I can absolutely rule
things out that I just don't want to
invest in as soon as I walk in. And
there's times walk in the office it's
like wow this is really impressive. You
can tell how people work together, how
hard they're working, how distracted
they are. Uh Roloff Boat at Sequoa made
a point to me about YouTube. Um so when
I invested in YouTube the very very
beginning um it wasn't obviously going
to be successful and then Rooff uh led
the series A investment for Sequoia on
YouTube and we were at a board meeting
together and he said you know I think
YouTube is really going to work and I
said why and he said well every time I
go to one of my portfolio companies half
the office is watching YouTube at lunch
and I was like pretty good sign. Um so
like you pick up on these little things
and you can predict a lot. Thank you me.
Yeah. Uh, what do you think is the best
way to gain street credit for a new
manager? Oh boy. Um,
yeah. So, the question is, how is the
best way to g gain street cred for a new
manager? Almost all good managers in
Silicon Valley are promoted because of
their individual performance. Um, in
cultures that are meritocratic, you
know, the percentage is even higher. So,
we tried at PayPal to only promote
people that were basically kicking ass
at their discipline. So, Peter didn't
believe in uh general managers. Um, in
fact, I remember going for a jog around
campus with him my first week at PayPal
and he's asking me, you know, how are
things going? The usual kind of CEO
questions. And then we got this debate
about whether the company needed any
managers. And he's like, "Nope, no
managers. We're only going to promote
people." So, the VP of engineering is
going to be the single best engineer.
The VP of design is going to be the
single best designer. The VP of product
is going to be the single best product
person. And they're going to learn to
manage later. And the advantage of that
is you don't have you don't demoralize
people because everybody knows that
their boss actually is better at their
job than they are. and they can learn
stuff and you can learn a little bit of
the management techniques later as
opposed to promoting people who are just
good people managers that don't actually
have the discipline and skill and that
does demoralize people. So I think just
being excellent at something and then
getting excellent at getting a bunch of
people to do something is the next task.
But people people you just have to learn
some things you have to learn by doing.
You can't learn to play the guitar by
reading a book. You've actually got to
try to manage a bit and you won't do it
well. I have another sort of set of
tactics and classes on what you actually
do when you transition from a manager
individual contributor to manager and
it's hard. One of the first things
people don't get right is their time
allocation. And so actually I would
recommend doing what I call a calendar
audit a audit and tracking for a month
what do you spend your time on and how
much is managing and editing how much is
writing etc and then optimize that over
time. You can get a mentor um find
somebody who's been a manager before. Um
that will work with you not your boss
because your boss has a set of
complicated uh objectives including how
much are we shipping. Um a mentor can
just focus on you and making you more
successful.
Could you give some more examples of
things you can do to ensure consistent
voice of the company especially when the
company is growing? Yeah. Um, so
I would look at every piece of copy in
every department. So like another area
that almost never is it done so look at
your recruiting website almost never
done to the same quality as your
conversion funnel. I'd look at customer
support another classic area that isn't
up to the same quality and treat
customer support like a product. uh so
that you actually have an engineering
team and a design team over time that
actually focuses on making that world
class. Um usually we have different
executives at a scaled company. Most
executives were trained differently at
different companies and they bring some
of that with them. So you've got to
cross trainin that. So if you've hired a
VP of engineering from Google, it's very
different than a design leader came from
Apple. They don't actually learn how to
do anything the same way. Um so you're
going to have to stitch that together
somehow. either one or the other is
going to have to learn in the other
style or you're going to have to create
your own style and really teach that to
your executives. So, it shows up all the
time, but all you do all you need to do
is just pick up the company's products
and look for things that have a
different voice. And you can see it
visual voice, word choice, all over the
map. Sam, could you talk a little about
the tactics of how you manage people?
Like, how often do you meet with them?
How do you give them goals? How often do
you tell them the email? So the
canonical advice and this now sounds
obvious but it actually was pretty
radical in 1982 when Andy Ro's book is
you should have a one-on-one roughly
every two weeks. Some people say every
week and uh I don't think you want to go
longer than two weeks. One week can be
ideal actually in many companies. The
reason why in fact there's an old
another adage which is you should only
have five to seven direct reports. That
actually derives from the concept of a
one-on-one every week. um so that the
direct reports so you can fit enough
enough one-on ones in your calendar and
still get other things done. So I think
one-on- ones per week are a good idea.
The agenda should be crafted by the
employee who reports to the manager, not
the manager. The one-on-one is mostly
for the benefit of the employee. So they
should walk in with here's the three or
four things I want to talk about.
Ideally, they circulate that. It can be
even bullet points in advance by email,
but in advance you have time to chew on
it and you're not on the fly uh winging
your responses. But that's probably the
best structure. Now, if someone's really
good and really talented and has been
doing something for a long time with a
lot of internal credibility, you might
push out the one every week and relax
that to one every two weeks, possibly
once a month. I don't know that I would
go beyond once a month ever.
Uh, when is it acceptable to compromise
and hire someone who is uh ammunition
rather than a barrel? Yeah. So, the
question is when when do you compromise
and hire more ammunition instead of a
barrel? Truthfully, you're going to hire
more ammunitions by by definition than
you are barrels. So there's a ratio
between the two. The question is the
ratio. So at some point the ratio is
going to get out of whack. So if you're
the only barrel in the company and you
have 50 engineers, you might as well
only have 10 engineers because you're
not going to get any more done. So
you're just wasting resources. You're
going to frustrate engineers because
everybody's going to need your approval,
your sign off, your editing. It's just
going to stack and frustrate people. So
it's really now different disciplines.
engineering like I actually think like
roughly
1 to 10 to 20 is probably about the
right range. Um like you don't you don't
need you don't need more engineers until
you have more barrels. Um designers a
little different but it it does I it's
always going to be hiring more
ammunitions and a good leader a good uh
barrel will kind of have a feel for
that. So one way to uh one way to
correct for this natural tendency is to
increase your headcount on your team
like sort of an empire building tendency
like oh so I manage 20 people and Sam
only manages 10 and you manage three so
I'm more important than Sam and you're
more important than you. One way to do
that is you put an X here of the number
of people that the output sorry specify
how how many things they've done
successfully then divide by the number
of people on their team and tell them
that this is going to be their grade in
their performance review. Shockingly
this Y doesn't start increasing on that
team. Um it's amazing how this works and
be really explicit about it.
So as a venture capitalist uh how often
you intervene with your portfolio
company and what's your philosophy
behind that? So how often do I meet with
them? Yeah. How you interact with? So
the question is as a venture capitalist
how often do I interact with my
companies meet with them? Um generally
when we invest and we do do some seed
investments where we invest less money
but when we invest a fair amount of
money and lead a round like a series A
or series B round uh we join the board
and roughly I meet with the founder CEO
every two weeks that's the default. Now
there can be obviously there's
inflection moments and things go right
go well or wrong and that you know
that's on an ad hoc basis. Um these days
actually surprisingly I do a lot by text
message. I even have one CEO who
Snapchats me all the time. Um, which I'd
actually rather him not, but but
so the world the world has changed a
lot. Um, but I try in-person meetings
every two weeks. But you don't need to
operation, right? Um, no. I mean,
really, it's like being a venture
capitalist is more to me like being a
psychologist. So, if you come to my
office, you'll see actually we have two
chairs kind of arrayed like this with a
little table in the middle and we sit
down and I'm basically like, "So, tell
me your problems." You know, and then
it's like a question. It's like so have
you and then and then my response is
usually well have you thought about
this? Have you talked to this person?
Have you tried this? etc. And it's just
asking a lot of questions and going back
that way. But that's 90% of what I do.
So as CEO when you you've got these
barrels, right? Let's say you're a
startup company, you've got two really
good engineers and you're working on
this product. I've heard that you should
always be Yes. How do you how do you
balance that? Well, it depends on where
your prioritizations are. So, you know,
Sam talked a little bit about this in
his lecture, but every company will move
recruiting, you know, first, second, or
third somewhere in that, you know, sort
of spectrum. If it's your number one
priority, then about 25% is probably a
pretty good allocation. Um, actually, I
like the calendar audit for CEOs even
more so than for new managers. So, when
I work with CEOs sometimes who aren't uh
thriving in that role for the first
time, I actually force them to show me
their calendar. And before I do that,
and now I'm going to ruin this trick
because I'm going to tell it to you. I
actually ask them to rank their
priorities, write them down on a piece
of paper and just specify whatever they
are. Then we go pull up their calendar
and see if it matches and it never
matches like never. Like recruiting is
the one that's most often ary. So you
know let's say half the CEOs you meet
with will say recruiting is the number
one priority. It's almost never the
biggest block of time on anybody's
calendar. And so that's what you're
trying to do is match resources and
inputs against priorities and a calendar
audit. Unfortunately there's no software
that does this really well. Um, it would
be great like actually we literally pull
up someone's Google calendar and kind of
manually add up the hours. Um, which is
somewhat insane, but that's that's the
best way is just what are your
priorities? If your priorities are
raising money, you don't want to
allocate 100% of your time to
recruiting. You want to allocate a fair
amount of time to raising money for that
block of time until you're successful at
it. How about one more question? One
more question. Anybody? Okay, go ahead.
On the surface, some of this advice
seems contradictory because you've
emphasized focusing on A+ tasks and
delegating less important things, but
then you've said it's good to write like
a three-page script for your
receptionist and focus on all the
details. How do you harmonize those
roles? It's a good question. I think the
way to harmonize the question is really
how do you harmonize things like where
details can really matter, but you only
get one thing, you know, to do and
you've got to allocate to the top one,
two or three things. How do you how do
you put those two things together? And
actually there is some tension and even
in a healthy organization there's some
tension of like why are we actually
focused on you know writing the script
um as opposed to something a user may
see. I think the underlying philosophy
of getting the details right is pretty
important to install in the very very
very beginning of a company because
people will start acting that way and
making decisions that way themselves. So
you won't have to actually literally do
that and if you have to do that it
actually shows that you the foundation
isn't actually that that solid. So when
you first start the company, it's about
getting the details right that everybody
is precise. Everybody on every task is
always thinking that way and then that
scales and then the people you bring in,
it's a little self-fulfilling. People
who can think that way will tend to get
hired. People who can't won't get hired.
Each team and each leader will tend to
enforce that themselves. So CEO is
almost never doing it. So it's partially
like how do you start? And it cultures
like that. I mean that the key to
culture is it's a rule. It's a framework
for making decisions. And if you have a
cultures baked, people learn how to make
decisions across that culture and you're
never saying anything. You never have to
really do anything except just you know
watch and uh you know and promote and
move people around. Cool. Well, I guess
that's it. Thank you.