Title: How To Design Better AI Apps
Video ID: WJoZK9sMwvw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WJoZK9sMwvw
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-05-23T14:00:59Z
Duration: PT30M8S
Views: 97105
Likes: 2279
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 853

Description:
In this episode of The Breakdown, Tom and Dave are joined by fellow YC General Partner Pete Koomen to lay out a new vision for how AI should actually work: not as a chatbot bolted onto legacy software, but as a customizable tool that helps people offload the work they don't want to do. From editable system prompts to agents that act more like collaborators, they dig into what it means to build AI-native software—and why the future belongs to products that let users teach machines how to think.



============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

We're using old software development
techniques to build these features and
we're not actually taking full advantage
of what AI can do. I think the promise
of AI for many of us is that it allows
us to build software that the user can
program to do whatever they want using
only natural language. Steve Jobs
describes software as a sort of as a
bicycle for the mind. This feels like I
don't know like a rocket ship for the
mind.
[Music]
Welcome to another episode of The
Breakdown. Today we're lucky to have
Pete Kumman, our partner here at YC.
Pete was the founder of Optimizely,
which built software to help companies
AB test. Pete, welcome. Thank you. Happy
to be here. So, Pete, you recently wrote
an essay which caused a bit of a stir
and basically told everyone on the
internet who was building AI agents they
were doing it completely wrong. So, tell
us more about that. Sure. uh when I use
AI in my day-to-day life, I've kind of
had two radically different experiences,
right? On one hand, when I use tools
like cursor and wind surf to build
software with AI, it feels like the most
powerful tool I've ever used, right?
It's this feeling of being able to
create anything I want. Anything I can
picture in my head, uh you know, will
materialize in front of me with these
tools. And it makes me so excited about
AI. Uh, and then I've had a lot of other
experiences a lot of times when I'm
using existing apps that I'm used to
that have incorporated AI into them
where it doesn't feel that way at all.
Um, it actually feels like more of a
chore, right? Like using the AI actually
creates more work for me than uh just
doing whatever it was myself. The
example that I chose in my essay uh was
to pick on the integration that the
Gmail team built between their AI model
Gemini and Gmail's uh interface that uh
this is a little draftw writing agent
that can create email drafts for me
given some instructions. Yeah. And the
underlying Gemini model is pretty
phenomenal, right? Gemini is amazing.
The model itself is absolutely
incredible. We've been using it a lot at
YC to automate our own work. I'm so
impressed with what they built. Um, but
a lot of that power, I think, is hidden
behind a UI that makes it really
frustrating to use. And that was really
the focus of my essay. The feature that
I chose as my example was this little
draftw writing agent that shows up in
the Gmail interface. And uh, what it
does is I can put in some instructions.
So, in this case, let my boss Gary know
that my daughter woke up with the flu
this morning and I won't be able to come
into the office today. and it will spit
out an email draft for me to make your
life easier. To make my life easier.
Exactly. So, here is the email draft
that I got when I put that prompt into
the UI. Dear Gary, I'm writing to inform
you that my daughter woke up with the
flu this morning. As a result, I won't
be able to come into the office today.
Thank you for understanding. Best
regards, Pete. And if I got this, I'd be
like, Pete has been has his brain taken
over by like or he's been fished and I
need to report fishing like something's
going horribly wrong. accounts been
hacked, right? There's two big problems
with this. The first problem is, like
you're pointing out, that doesn't sound
anything like me, right? If you got this
email, you wouldn't you would assume
somebody else wrote this. My account got
hacked. I got fished. And then the
second problem is that the draft or
rather the prompt that I used to explain
what I wanted in the draft is roughly as
long as the draft itself. Yeah, that was
my contention here. Right. On one side,
you have using AI makes you feel like a
superhuman with unlimited powers, and on
the other hand, using AI is is
frustrating and adds more work. Maybe
we're jumping ahead a bit a little bit,
but the ideal experience, I think, would
be something like telling the AI, hey,
my daughter's ill, like figure out my
calendar today. And then it go through
your actual calendar and then figure out
each person and then write the
appropriate email in the appropriate
tone. Right? That's perhaps we're
skipping all the way to the end, but I I
think that's exactly right. These AI
models are now capable of doing things
like that where it's actually
anticipating all of the things that will
need to happen as a result of my
daughter waking up with the flu and
helping me do those things. But that's
not what we've built, right? That's not
what what the team has built. So Pete,
like the people who work on Gmail, I I
know a lot of them. They're not dunes,
right? Not at all. Yeah. They probably
don't use the feature themselves is my
guess cuz I don't use that feature. So
how did we get here? Like how did this
happen? I know many people who work for
Google. They're incredibly smart. Uh why
did they ship a feature that ostensibly
nobody, including probably them,
actually uses? I don't know. Part of the
problem is that we're using old software
development mentality, old software
development techniques to build these
features and we're not actually taking
full advantage of what AI can do. And so
I'll explain what I mean by that, right?
And I'll go back to these two problems.
Let's start with the tone problem,
right? This doesn't actually sound like
me. Why is that? Well, what's actually
happening under the hood when I ask this
Gmail agent for a draft is that this
Gmail agent, this little UI, combines my
prompt, which is the one we we just
talked about, with what's called a
system prompt. And the system prompt is
the text that explains to the AI who it
is and what its job is. And this gets
reused every single time. And in the
Gmail case, I don't actually know what
that system prompt says. This is it's
been hidden from the user. I'm not
allowed to see it, let alone edit it
myself. But we can kind of guess what it
says, right? You know, and I've got a
little caricatured version of this in
the essay. The system prompt here is
something like, "You're a helpful email
writing assistant responsible for
writing emails on behalf of a Gmail
user. follow the user's instructions and
use a formal businessy tone and correct
punctuation so that it's obvious the
user is really smart and serious. I
actually built a little demo so that you
can see the impact of a system prompt on
the email draft, right? And so we
combine our sort of supposed Gmail
system prompt with my user prompt here
asking for the draft and we generate the
draft and we get something like this.
Right? Again, it's an email that seems
perfectly reasonable. It does what I've
asked but it doesn't sound like me. So
just digging in like we are guessing
what the the system prompt might be in
this case but it seems we've guessed
close because the output is basically
what you get when you use Gmail
relatively similar. And so like just to
point out the the system prompt that we
have created here um is one that is
generic. It would apply to all users in
exactly the same way. It's one that's
like safe. Um you've explicitly told it
um use a businessy tone, look smart and
serious. Don't say anything that might
make the parent company of this product
look bad. And that's got to be the
overriding concern for a lot of these
companies, right? We don't want the AI
to say anything that's going to
embarrass Google. I I remember it was
either Google or Facebook released like
a scientific model like pretty early on
and then very very quickly pulled it
back because it was saying some it was
hallucinating sometimes. And so I think
like Google were really on the cutting
edge of this transform technology and
were like leap frog by open AI just
because they was too cautious to put
stuff out there. Yes. Yeah. I think
that's probably a big part of this,
which is that, you know, my my little
supposed version here is probably
incomplete. There's probably a whole
bunch of additional text in the real
system prompt about not embarrassing
Google and all of the different things
it should avoid doing. If you say
anything bad about Sundar, you're fine.
And we've seen this recently as uh these
system prompts kind of get leaked at
times. And it's a big deal because
everybody's we see the system prompt now
for this AI assistant or this one. And
if you read those system prompts, yeah,
they're quite elaborate. uh and they
have direct instructions to avoid
certain problems. You can see the mark
of the HR team in that system probably.
I think there's a deeper issue here
which is that we're designing features
like this in a way that looks a lot like
software that we've been building for
decades, right? And so just to
illustrate what's possible, let's
imagine that Gmail allowed me to not
only see but edit this system prompt for
myself. I might write a version that
instead of saying you are a generic
Gmail writing, you know, email writing
agent, my version might just say you're
Pete, right? You're a 43-year-old
husband, you're a father, you're a YC
partner, you're busy, and so is everyone
you correspond with, and so you do your
best to keep emails as short as
possible, right? What I've done here is
I just take the little program in my
brain that is used for writing emails,
and I've done my best to explain to
Gemini how I do that. And if you just
take that same user prompt asking for a
draft of an email explaining that my
daughter's sick and you use my system
prompt rather than the generic
one-sizefits-all Gmail system prompt.
The draft we get, "Hi Gary, my
daughter's sick with the flu, so I can't
come in today. Thanks." That sounds like
an email that I would have written.
Totally. By editing this system prompt,
I'm able to explain to the AI model how
I write emails in general so that I
don't have to do it every single time.
And so going back to your question, why
did the Gmail team hide decide to hide
this system prompt away? My contention
is that a lot of AI app developers,
including the Gmail team in this case,
are treating the system prompt the same
way they've been treating code for
decades. For, you know, as long as we've
had a software industry, there's been a
division of labor between me, the user,
and you, the developer. The user does
not see the code. User doesn't see the
code. The developer is the one who is
responsible for building the system,
defining the system. It's all hidden
away, and it's abstracted behind. an
interface that I can point and click
around to do something. It's more or
less one sizefits-all software. That's
the only way we've been able to build
software up until now is oneizefits-all,
right? If you're building an online bank
software or a piece of AB testing
software, your job as a developer is to
go and talk to hundreds or thousands of
users and synthesize all of their needs
together into one common set of features
that you're going to build in your
oneizefits-all piece of software. sort
of lowest common denominator software.
Exactly. Exactly. And that's I think the
Gmail system prompt in this case you can
think of as the lowest common
denominator email writer. It's the safe
anyone could use this thing. But what it
results in is emails that no individual
would actually write. Yeah. No one's
getting fired, but this is not the
software that's going to take over the
world. That's exactly right. You think
that developers today are using AI in
the previous generation of software
development that they've been used to?
Yes. Um, and so you use this phrase, the
AI horseless carriage. Maybe tell us
what you mean by that. This is a
reference to early automobile designs
that looked a lot like uh carriages with
the horse replaced with an engine,
right? And there were all sorts of
problems with that design. You know, for
example, there's less suspension on
carriages, which didn't work at high
speeds with a vibrating motor, right?
That the center of gravity was higher,
which made turns harder at high speeds.
Basically uh inventing the motor was
only a small part of what was needed to
produce a vehicle that could take
advantage of the it only became useful
once you redesign the entire That's
exactly right. Right. Yeah. And this
phenomena we we see over and over and
over again in technology like some some
ones that I have lived through when the
internet came about. Um a lot of the
first search engines were literally just
like digitized yellow pages. It was just
a directory of listings. And now of
course we think like that's silly kind
of like Craigslist right that's what it
started with when mobile came out the
first mobile apps or a lot of the first
mobile apps were basically just websites
wrapped in a native app wrapper but they
didn't take advantage of any of the new
technologies available on the mobile
phone like GPS like multi-touch and it
takes a few years typically to get to
the useful bit of the new technology and
I guess what what you're claiming Pete
is we are like not there yet. I think
the the deepest problem here is that
when the when the Gmail team set out to
build this, they kind of asked, "How can
we slot AI into the Gmail application?
How do we replace the horse and put an
engine in?" That's exactly right. And
the the problem with that is that Gmail
is an application designed for humans to
do work in. Right. The real promise of
AI, I think, for many of us is using AI
to automate repetitive busy work, right?
And a lot of the time I spend on email
is repetitive busy work, right? It's
it's work that doesn't really need my
full brain power, but because we haven't
had the technology requires it, right?
And so I give a little example in my
essay of just, you know, using these
simple techniques, what you could do
with an email inbox. And here's that
example. So this is an example of an
email inbox. It's got a bunch of
messages on the right hand side and
there's an agent operating in this inbox
and it's an instead of an email writing
agent, it's an email reading agent. On
the the left hand side here, you can see
this is a system prompt that I wrote
that just tells this agent what to do
with each email. And the agent can
assign a label to an incoming email. It
can archive it. uh it can put a color on
that label and it can write a draft.
Right? Those are the things this agent
can do and my instructions are just what
to do for each email. So if the email is
from my wife, draft a reply and label it
personal. If it's from my boss, draft a
reply and make it priority one, right?
Which is just one one notch lower than
emails from my wife. Uh and for anyone
else at YC where I work, a YC label and
give it priority two, right? Right? If
it's from a founder who needs help, call
it, you know, put a founders's label on
it. Make a right. This is my sort of
internal again mental model for how I
organize my email. And I'm just
explaining to Gemini how I do this work
so that it can do it on my behalf. One
thing I find interesting about this is
this is really the code. This is the
programming you are doing for this
agent. But if you read it, it's pretty
accessible, right? It says if it's a
techreated email, label it tech. If it's
somebody trying to sell me something,
archive it. And this is like a a great
example of how the LLM technology is
actually good enough to let
non-programmers program these apps. You
know, the way that I think of these
these these models, a super smart, you
know, fresh grad right out of college
that can do anything pretty well, but
has no idea what to do, you know, and
the missing step is giving me the
ability to teach it how to do work that
I don't want to do, which is what I've
done here. And you're right, it's
completely accessible. One of the sort
of pieces of push back I got when I
started talking about letting users just
write their own system prompts was like,
well, most people aren't technical. They
don't know how to do that. Which I think
is true. This isn't a skill we're born
with. But in doing this myself, I found
it really intuitive. It's basically like
thinking of the way that I make a
decision and then trying to explain to
this AI model how to do it. And as long
as you can kind of um watch it do the
job and and give it feedback by by
adjusting this prompt, it's pretty
intuitive. And so, for example, here,
here's what happens when I apply this
little agent to each one of the emails
in this inbox.
Amazing. I love this. Um, this is a this
is an essay. Uh, but it's not static. I
love the fact that you've built this
little widget so people can actually go
in, they can edit the system prompt
themselves to kind of reformat it the
way they want and rerun it. I think it's
such a smart way to to convey this kind
of idea. One of my favorite things is
building demos. And this felt like an
intuitive way to start talking about
some of these concepts. And this is just
another example of how powerful AI makes
you feel when you're building with it.
When you're just interacting with these
models. How did you build this by the
way? I vibe coded the whole thing. So I
wrote, you know, this is I mean like
ironically enough, these AI models are
not actually that useful to help you
write things from scratch, right? The
part where I used AI was describing a
demo that I thought would help
communicate the the point I was trying
to make and then watching it appear,
right? Like it's it's absolutely
magical. It's astonishing how good these
uh especially the coding agents. I mean,
I rebuilt my entire my um I was on
Tumblr and I migrated my blog to custom
software I wrote in one hour on a train
journey. The coding agents especially
just seem so far ahead of of all the
other general purpose agents right now.
Yes. And to me uh like we will have
caught up when everybody uh has the same
experience that we have when we're using
these coding agents in their particular
domain. Right? So when accountants can
build uh accounting agents that do just
all of the repetitive workflows on their
behalf, when lawyers can build lawyering
agents that do the repetitive workflows
on their behalf is basically every
profession I think will have its cursor
moment or its windsurf moment. Why is
cursor windsurf or claude code so far
ahead of you know, lawyer agents or
accounting agents. I think there's two
reasons. Um, the first is that these AI
models are incredibly good at processing
text, right? So, if I can write a good
description of a thing I want, they can
process that description, that prompt,
and turn it into a bunch of code. Right?
This is going back to why it was so
annoying to write that original email
prompt is like these agents aren't good
at writing from scratch. They're good at
processing instructions and doing and
and turning them into to some text
output, right? For code, that's actually
really useful, right? If I can describe
in English what I'm looking for, an
agent can output code that does this and
it's remarkably effective. This is just
a domain where these agents are are
really powerful. I think the other
reason though is that developer tools
are power tools, right? Developer tools
by definition allow you to to get to the
bare metal, right? to get under the hood
of what whatever it is you're working
with. And so the teams that built these
these tools allowed me full access to
have this agent do whatever I wanted it
to do. They didn't spend a lot of time
making sure that I didn't do anything
that was embarrassing to Windsurf or
embarrassing to anyone. I'm allowed to
just interact directly with the model
and use the full power. Whereas I think
a lot of a lot of other domains were
still using this sort of like kid glove
mentality of like oh don't don't let
them use the full power of these models.
I hope we're able to move beyond u this
this moment in time where there's so
much assumed liability on the part of
the application developers for what
these models do. Well, I think the
interesting point is if you do change
the model where the user is in charge or
at least has access to the system
prompt, then the u repercussions of that
are on the user and not on the company
that built the tool. Yeah. It's like um
Google put Gmail out and if you write an
email full of profanity that's on you,
right? Like exactly the same way like if
you change the system prompt to act
like, you know, a violent jerk, like
that's on you. That's not on Google.
Yeah. It's it's a shift in mentality. Uh
giving giving AI to the user as a tool
and they can use it for whatever their
purposes are versus feeling like you as
a developer have to be responsible for
everything these these models output and
therefore you nerf it and it's not
useful. So I broadly agree with
everything you've said so far but I I
had some questions and the first one is
do you think u the vast majority of
people are able to write these kind of
system prompts? I think the answer today
is
no. But I think the answer to that in
the near future will be yes. Why is
that? When I was growing up computers
were still seen as a power tool that
only nerds really knew how to use,
right? Um, and today that's just no
longer the case. All of us use computers
all the time. It's no longer like
remarkable or interesting for somebody
to use to be able to use a computer,
right? And so what happened is we all
just sort of figured out how to use
these things and the interfaces got
better, right? It's it's the tech the
tech got better and we learned how to
use it in time. And so it is
unremarkable, right? And I think the
same thing is going to happen with
prompting. So I think this is actually
going to happen a lot faster with
prompting because pro writing a prompt
is a lot more accessible than you know
operating your file system manager on on
your computer. You don't need to
understand much except to be able to
explain yourself in English or whatever
language you speak. Having done this uh
several times my myself now it's
surprisingly intuitive. Right? Thinking
about okay how do I write an email?
Right? It's it's a bit of a toy example
but it's kind of fun. You can write your
little internal algorithm for it and
then you can watch and if it gets the
tone right, your system prompt is is is
right. Yeah. And I agree with you on
that. I think basically everyone will be
able to do this. I'm not sure everyone
will want to or to have the initiative
or agent like we're three founders
sitting here. We love to tinker with
this stuff. Like you're telling me about
your mom using uh like my mom uses Gmail
every day, but is she going to write a
system prompt? Like probably probably
not. Yeah, maybe. I So I don't know. I'
I've learned not to be pessimistic about
what what users can learn. Um, but I
agree with with the point, Rich, is that
I don't think I'd want to write my own
email writing system prompt from
scratch. I'd like to have that option,
right? But I've been using Gmail for 20
years, right? And there are 20 years of
my email history that a good product
could use to to create a draft prompt
for me, right? The idea that, take a
human analogy, you hire a new employee,
you hire an assistant. The idea that
you're going to sit down and write out
30 pages of instructions of how you do
every single thing in your life is
possible, but none of us actually do it.
You sort of you give this gradual
training and if they were able to go
through and read all your previous
emails, they kind of learn and then you
um you kind of interact with them step
by step and they write a few emails and
you check the drafts and when you're
comfortable, you say, "I didn't want to
check the drafts anymore. Send it." And
then if you spot something that's not
quite right, you say, "Oh, no, no, no. I
would have phrased that this way or this
other way." and the human would take
that feedback and edit their own system
prompt. So, so Pete, you've been
actually doing this at YC, right? You've
built some internal tools that our
finance team or our legal team uses. Um,
and it's it feels like the interaction
has been exactly what Tom just described
where you literally go sit next to a
finance person and you ask them like,
"Hey, tell me how you do this this
workflow. Like, show me what you do."
And then you write some system prompt
for them. They try it. It doesn't do it
quite right. they edit the system prompt
with you. So, it's kind of this like
back and forth iterative model that
you're suggesting. Yeah. And I'd go
further than that. I think there's like
a missing tool in AI app development,
which is like not everyone has a pizza
next to them, but you could have an AI
system prompt writer sitting next to you
to take you say, "No, this wasn't right
or I would have rewritten it like this."
And it will translate that back into a
system prompt and kind of self-edit or
autoupdate. Absolutely. Right. And and
these are great examples of um UI
conventions that we just haven't figured
out yet, right? And and you can see
people are experimenting with different
models here. Some of the foundation
model labs have started building memory
into their into their chat bots, right?
Which is that's one um mechanism for
taking context that I've shared over
time and storing it forever, right? Um,
I haven't had great experiences with
that because again it's it's sort of
it's treated like a black box where I
can't actually see what it has
internalized and what it's stored. My
big contention here is that because this
is all just English, we no longer have
to treat these things like black boxes.
The system prompt is almost like this
this document that you don't have to
edit if you don't want to. But in the at
the limit, if there's something really
goes wrong, you can go in and tinker
with it if you want. But probably for
most people, the AI will autogenerate
it. it will um look through your
previous work to to customize it to you
and take your feedback on ongoing basis
to kind of edit this system prompt and
you know the kind of break glass case is
you go and edit the file and be like no
no no I really don't want this to happen
but I I'd suggest I think in in 5 years
for 99% of people they're not touching
the system prompt but the system prompt
is custom to them. I think that's
possible. It'll be interesting to see
how this plays out. Some of the work
that we've done at YC, building agents
to automate some of the repetitive work
that we and our teammates do on a
regular basis actually suggests to me
that writing prompts is going to be part
of the day-to-day flow for a lot of
people. I agree in the short term, but I
I think my contention is like there's a
a higher level of of abstraction on top
of system prompt writing that you
shouldn't actually have to go and edit
the system prompt that you're able to
like nudge or like say no no that okay
here's a new term sheet that's a new
term we've never seen before and here's
how I would think about it and the goes
thank you very much I will take that
distill it down into system prompt and
and autoedit system prompt rather than
Alex having to look up this like 50page
document and go like I'm going to change
that specific line you know what I It's
like a a level of abstraction on top of
raw kind of raw dogging the system
prompt. I think we'll probably have
tools that make it easier to teach an AI
over time rather than going up and and
editing in, you know, a 10 or 50page
prompt uh every time every single time
you want to do this. And I hope that
developers stop treating these prompts
like black boxes. Being able to look at
the ground truth of what this agent is
being instructed to do on my behalf is
incredibly valuable and it seems to be
totally missing from a lot of
applications. I 100% agree with that.
So, so we've been talking a lot about
the prompting, right? And and Tom is
kind of saying like there's a going to
be a bunch of innovation on how we write
system prompts or how we edit them or or
iterate on them. In the essay, you also
talk about tooling which I think is a
really important and interesting topic
as well. Talk talk to us about that.
Yeah, sure. So, so if developers aren't
the ones who have to write all these
system prompts from scratch, what are
they going to focus on? I think the
promise of AI for many of us is that it
gives us software or it allows us to
build software that the user can program
to do whatever they want using only
natural language. The thing that these
agents need in order to be able to do
anything useful, we call tools. If we go
back to my little email reading agent
here, the tools that this agent has
access to are a tool for labeling an
email, a tool for archiving an email,
and a tool for writing a draft. You
could imagine many other tools that
would make this agent more powerful and
more able to do a lot of the busy work
that I have to spend my own time on
right now, right? And so, a lot of the
emails I get are not emails that take a
lot of my brain power to handle, but
they just need to get done. Paying
bills, right? doing introductions and
handoffs, right? The number of times
that I've had to create a draft and put
this, you know, a certain person in BCC
and like um it's maddening to have to do
this stuff uh over and over again. The
point is is that an email in a lot of
ways is like my inbox uh you know it's
my to-do list or a whole bunch of chores
in life, right? The very few emails that
I write are really heartfelt original
thinking. A lot of it is sort of
transactional, you know, and with tools,
this email reading agent could handle a
lot of that, especially across things
like Slack and your calendar and your
notion or your Jira or your linear or
whatever. There's a company in the
current batch called Den basically
building cursor for knowledge work
that's trying to chain together all of
these different MCP servers, which
basically a way to call tools for agents
so that if your boss, you know, your
bossy sends you a message on Slack and
says, "Hey, uh, review these terms and
conditions." You pull it from Google
Docs, you review it, maybe the AI sends
it via email to your legal team, they
review it, and then you publish it by
GitHub. And all of this is controlled
via one place with kind of agents
calling these tools from different
places. And you just sort of sit sit
back. It's like a Steve Jobs described
software as a sort of as a bicycle for
the mind. This feels like I don't know
like a rocket ship for the mind. It's
incredibly powerful, right? Right. And
we built a we built an early version of
this inside of YC and we're already
seeing employees of YC automate parts of
their job that are easy to automate. And
and the difference that these tools
provide is it takes an agent which
previously could only be basically like
a Q&A, right? A question and answer
thing into something that can go off and
accomplish things in the world on your
behalf. Yeah. I I kind of hate the the
kind of chatbot paradigm. Like it was
the easiest. It was the way to bring the
most basic LLM experience to the whole
world. You know, we had GPT before chat
GPT and chat GPT brought it to the
mainstream, but now every product is
just embedding this chat agent in it.
It's like that's not the way this stuff
should be used in almost every case. I
totally agree because we started with
chat bots, a lot of us developers and
users are sort of anchored in this place
where the thing that LLMs are great at
is producing text. uh where I think what
we're what we're trying to argue here is
these LLMs are capable of automating
work on our behalf, accomplishing things
in the world on our behalf so that we
don't have to. And that's the promise
and I think that's an amazing future. I
look forward to it. Me too. This has
been so interesting. Pete, how do you
think founders should be thinking about
this when building their companies?
That's a great question. I think this is
one of the most exciting time to be a
founder because almost every tool that
we've been using for decades can be
rethought from the ground up with AI and
I think the AI native version of a lot
of tools will look different from the
versions we we're used to using. Right.
What I what I showed here looks pretty
different from an email client that I've
been using for most of my life. Yeah. So
they've got to go beyond simply like
embedding a chatbot inside their
existing product. Yes. Instead of asking
how do I insert AI into my tool, it's
how would I design this tool from
scratch to offload as much repetitive
work from the user as possible so they
can focus on what's important. All
right, Pete, thanks for joining us
today. Thank you for having me. See you
on the next episode.
[Music]