Title: Apoorva Mehta at Startup School NY 2014
Video ID: wkmR7TYUt_c
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wkmR7TYUt_c
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-06-20T06:15:27Z
Duration: PT22M40S
Views: 138456
Likes: 2009
Tags: Apoorva Mehta, Startup School, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (en)
Auto-generated: False
Snippets: 304

Description:
Apoorva Mehta at Startup School NY 2014. Startup School is YC's free online program for founders. Sign up to access the full curriculum and over $100k in deals! https://www.startupschool.org/

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

- [Alexis] Instacart CEO, Apoorva Mehta,
started out with a company that offered
something pretty amazing, right?
Shopping from stores across your city
all in one bag
delivered to your home within a few hours.
So, you can have that case of Yingling
from Costco, shipped right alongside
the organic kale from whole foods.
And, it'll just show up.
And, very recently they announced
a significant 44 million dollar round
of funding and are bringing Instacart
to New York city. It's here right now.
You can all order that said kale
and Yingling right here at the theater
if you so desire. But, in the meantime
while you're planning out your recipes,
please give it up for Apoorva.
Come on out Apoorva.
[applause]
- [Apoorva] Hey guys.
Thank you so much for having me here.
I am psyched to be here today with you.
So, as Alexis says, my name's Apoorva
and I am the founder and CEO of Instacart.
So, what is Instacart? Instacart
is a product, where you can order
your groceries and get them delivered
to your door within one hour.
What's interesting about this is how
we actually make this happen.
Instacart is entirely a software company,
which means that we don't actually have
any warehouses, no trucks and we don't
hold any inventory.
So, when you order your groceries, we have
one of the thousands of personnel
shoppers in our network pick up
your groceries from stores
such as Whole Foods, Costco, Safeway
and many others and bring them
to your door within one hour.
We've been around for two years now and
we've raised over 55 million dollars
in financing and today we're doing over
hundreds of thousands of dollars
in revenue every single day.
Today, I'd like to share with you
the story of Instacart.
Hopefully, there are some lessons here
that could be useful to you
in your journey.
The story of Instacart begins two years
before I started the company.
I used to live in Seattle and I worked
at Amazon at the time
and I'd always wanted to start a company.
But, it wasn't until January of 2010,
when this became serious.
I realized that my learning at Amazon was
plateauing and I was getting tired
of the slow and bureaucratic environment
there. So, I knew I had to make a change.
To get started, I started going to these,
these founder meet ups in Seattle
and every week they would have
these entrepreneurs who would come in
and do a talk and this was great.
But, I realized that every time they will
be talking, they would talk about things
like convertible notes versus series A
or angels versus VCs, and, and consumer
versus enterprise and I'll be honest,
I had no clue what they were talking
about. To me, if you're talking about
enterprise, I thought we were talking
about a car rental company. So, given this
what I was starting with,
I knew I had a lot of catch up to do.
I immersed myself into this. I started
talking to as many founders
as I could find. I started talking to
as many investors I could find
and I started reading as many books
about start-ups I could find.
I also started to come up with and develop
ideas in my spare time.
And, this was a lot of fun. Even though
I enjoyed my work at Amazon,
I'd look forward to come home and work
on my ideas.
It got to the point where I was working
on my ideas even during the day at work.
Very soon, my coworker started to notice
that something was wrong. I was a back-end
Logistics Engineer at Amazon
so my coworkers would always be curious
why I had Xcode open on my computer
all the time.
So, I knew that I was being unfair
to my coworkers and so I decided
that I wanted to quit and focus
on my ideas full-time. In fact, today
is the fourth year anniversary
of me quitting my job at Amazon.
[applause]
At the time, I was scared and uncertain,
but now I know that was the best decision
I've ever made in my entire life.
After quitting Amazon, I had a decision
to make whether to stay in Seattle or move
to San Francisco.
Let's just say it wasn't a very difficult
decision.
I packed my bags, told my friends goodbye
and moved to San Francisco,
a city where all I knew were two people.
Lucky for me those two people
also had a couch. After I moved
to San Francisco, I found a co-founder
and we got to work.
We weren't picky about a particular
vertical or market, so we were very
flexible about the ideas that we wanted
to try. One week we would work
on something like analytics platform for
advertisers, another week we would do
a groupon for food and for each one
of these products we would try to get
traction with the customers and around
this time we must have built around 20
products or so but the results were always
the same. Failed product after failed
product after failed product. About 12
months after leaving Amazon and working
on so many different products
and continuously failing, this started
to get to me. At this point, I would begin
to question whether quitting Amazon
was the right decision for me, whether
entrepreneurship was really even for me.
Around that time, we have been
brainstorming about this idea
and we thought it was worth a shot.
The idea itself was a social network
for lawyers.
[laughter]
And, our product will allow lawyers
to connect with each other, share
articles and interesting opinions.
At the time, I remember thinking
that this idea was brilliant.
That after all those failures that this
was going to be the one. I guess
there was one thing that we may have
overlooked and that was that
we didn't really know anything
about lawyers. We... I had never even
worked with a lawyer before.
And so we were working, we were building
a product for people that we really didn't
know much about, solving a problem
that we didn't know they had.
After building the product, building
a team and, and raising money
in talking to as many lawyers as possible,
I finally realized how terrible of an idea
this was. Lawyers don't like technology.
Lawyers don't like sharing.
And, most of all, lawyers especially
don't like someone trying to get them
to sign up for a service they never needed
in the first place.
After one year of iterating and pivoting
on this product, I realized that,
that this was just another failure to add
to the list. I told my co-founder
that we needed to part ways and I quit
my own start-up. I learnt a very important
lesson here and that was the reason
to start a company
should never be to start a company.
The reason to start a company should be
to solve a problem that you truly,
truly care about and connecting lawyers
was definitely not a problem
that I cared about.
One thing that has been with me
for as long as I can remember is,
is the pain of grocery shopping.
That was a problem that I truly cared
about and I have dreaded
going to the grocery store.
Once you get there, you have to circle in,
in through the aisles to find the item
that you're looking for, then you have
to wait in line to check out and then load
your groceries back to your apartment
only to realize that you've forgotten
something at the store. This was 2012
and we're buying everything online
from bags, to books, to big screen TVs.
But, one thing that all of us had to do
every single week, we were still doing
in the most inefficient means possible.
I had felt this pain for as long as I can
remember so I knew exactly what I needed
to build. In the spring of 2012, I started
to write the code
for the first version of Instacart...
and I promised myself
that I would not go to the grocery store
until the product was ready.
[laughter]
And, on June 2nd, 2012, I placed my first
order on Instacart and then, of course,
I went to the grocery store, picked up
my groceries
and delivered them to myself.
[laughter]
Instacart was already a profitable
business.
This is the first version of Instacart.
I realized something very interesting
here, which was, that my friends
were using Instacart as well.
I didn't have to force them to use it
and this was something that I've never
experienced with all the products that I
had built before this. So, I decided
that I wanted to go to Y Combinator.
But, there was one slight problem.
The application deadline had passed
two months ago. But, somehow, I knew
that if the, if the YC partners
experienced Instacart,
they would have to let me in.
So, I contacted all the YC alumni
that I had in my network for introduction
to the partners. And, in the next
24 hours, I started to get
those introductions. Now, all  I had to do
was wait. One by one, all the responses
start to come in and the answers
were always the same,...
"No way, it's too late."
And then, finally, I got, I got
Garry Tan's response and this gave me
some hope. He said, "You could fill out
a late application, but it's nearly
impossible now." So, that meant
it was possible.
[laughter]
I realize that, at this point, none
of the YC partners
actually experienced the product.
Did they even know that it was?
Did they even know how it was different?
So, I knew I had to make one last
attempt. I opened my app, placed an order
for a six pack of beer and addressed it
to Gary Tan at the YC headquarters.
One of my drivers, John, made the delivery
and texted me to let me know it was done.
And, half an hour later, I got a call
from Garry Tan.
I'm not sure if it was the beer talking
but he asked me to come
to the YC headquarters the next day
to meet the partners.
So, I arrive at the meeting location
the next day. I meet four partners
and I get a barrage of questions about
everything and anything
about the product.
We must have talked for about an hour
but it felt like just in a few minutes
and when, when it was done they told me
to leave and they said that
if they decided to fund me,
they'd give me a call.
This is standard YC practice,
but at the time it felt really,
really cold. It felt like the string
of failures, the string of rejections
would just continue.
Ten minutes later, I got a call from Harj
from YC. He said, "I cannot believe
we're doing this. We've never let anyone
in so late but if you're interested,
we would love to have you."
That's how I got into Y Combinator.
I learned two important lessons here.
First and foremost, Garry Tan loves
his beers.
[laughter]
and second lesson was that as a founder,
you have to be extremely resilient.
You have to go from failure to failure
without losing any steam,
because the next step, the next product,
the next iteration that you build
could make the difference.
It could be the, the step towards success.
After getting into Y Combinator, things
got really chaotic. YC has these dinners,
where all the founders get together
every Tuesday to share their progress
in there from last week. And, as I was
going to one of these YC dinners,
I got a call from one of my shoppers
and she sounded extremely flustered
and she said that she was going to quit.
I asked her what had happened
and she said, "Look, I know this
is a start-up and we're supposed to do
everything but I just can't do this."
Turns out, what had happened was
she had just received an order for 202
liter bottles of soda
from the Y Combinator dinner...
and there was just no way
that she was going to be able to carry it
or fit her in the car.
So, I talked to her for a few minutes and
I was able to calm her down and I told her
I was gonna meet up with her and then
we're gonna do this order together.
So, that's what we did. We had to clear
out three Safeways, or you guys
have Fairways here, to find those drinks.
This is, actually, us packing the card.
The trunk is already full at this point
and so this is the back seat of the car.
And, then, finally we get to Y Combinator
and we unload all these, all these bottles
and then we go to Rene who has coordinated
the dinner and ordered these drinks
to let her know that, "Hey. We made
the delivery." And, so we do that
and she turns around and says,
"Oh. This was so convenient. I'm gonna do
this every week."
[laughter]
In the, in the early days of Instacart,
most of the customer that we had were,
were YC founders and this was great
because getting, getting feedback
was very easy. Everytime they would
just place an order, I would give them
a call and ask them what they thought.
And, this allowed me to iterate
on the product very, very quickly. One
of the first orders that we had
was from Dan, another YC founder.
And, as he placed the order
and our shopper delivered them, my shopper
gave me a call right after the delivery
and said, "This customer was very odd
because he had ordered these bananas
but he would not accept the bananas
at delivery,
And, so my shopper had all these bananas
in her car, she didn't know
what to do with.
I was confused too. So, I decided to email
Dan and ask if everything was okay
with his order and especially
with the bananas. He replied 30 seconds
later and he was extremely agitated.
He said, "I ordered 10 bananas
on Instacart and your shopper brought
me 10 bushels of bananas.
What do you think this is? A zoo?"
[laughter]
Turns out that the picture on Instacart
for the item was a bushel of bananas
and, so, there was some confusion between
what the customer had ordered
and what the shopper thought
that the customer had ordered.
So, we ended up sending Dan a banana
bread recipe and he was fine.
[laughter]
YC encourages start-ups to, to do things
unscalably... at the beginning.
And, this is extremely important. I find
that this is one of the biggest
competitive advantages that a start-up
has over a larger company
because there's no way that the larger
company would be doing
those things unscalably.
And, the idea is that once your product
has demand, you can figure out
how to scale your product. We took
this advice to heart. In the early days
of Instacart, you could place orders on
our service without there being any
shoppers to fulfill those orders.
Of course, this meant that I would drop
everything I was doing and fulfill
the order myself.
Now, I don't have a car and getting a cab
in San Francisco is next to impossible.
So, in the early days of Instacart,
there was a high likelihood
that when you would place an order,
the order would arrive in the luxury
of a Uber black car.
[laughter]
After going to Y Combinator, my focus
changed to raising a seed round.
And, raising a seed round is one
of the hardest things that a founder does.
You have the least amount of data by your
company.
You have the least amount of traction
in your company so convincing investors
that this is a good idea is actually very,
very difficult. And, it was exceptionally
difficult for us because of the space
that we were operating in.
There have been some spectacular failures
in grocery delivery before, like Webvan,
Cosmo and many others. So, investors
were pretty reluctant to invest
in Instacart early on. In fact, I had one
meeting with a, with a venture capitalist
when suddenly he decide to get up
and leave the room.
And, he came back with a floppy disk
and he said, "You should go home and open
this because this has the Webvan business
plan." I didn't really know how to find
a floppy drive so I didn't really open it.
But we were able to close
a seed round with some investor,
who believed in us
and this was our revenue graph at the
time.
So, definitely, by no means is it
a rocket ship. Even after, even after
raising the seed round, our approach
towards unscalelably doing things
did not change.
And, only thing that mattered to us
was how fast we were growing and how fast
we were executing. One example is this,
was when we decided to add Trader Joe's
to Instacart's offering. When we add
a store in Instacart, the first thing
we have to do is find the items
that are available in that store
and get that catalog and put that onto
Instacart.com or in the apps.
Now, there is no API or website,
which had the item catalog
for Trader Joe's, so the only way
we could actually get hold
of the item information was to buy one
of every single item at Trader Joe's,
take it to a studio, take pictures
of all those things
and then put them into our catalog.
And, so that's exactly what we did.
Here's, actually, all the photos
of all the items being lined up before us
taking the picture. And, you know, many
of you may think this was a fool's errand
but our team ate like kings
for the next two weeks.
[laughter]
Using the same unscaleable
techniques, we added WholeFoods,
Costco and many other stores. And, we
realized that we had the best product
in the market. We were growing so fast and
our customers loved Instacart.
After figuring this out in San Francisco,
we decided that it was time to take
this outside of the Bay Area to a city
that represented United States,
you know, accurately.
And, so we decided to launch in
Chicago. What we found there,
to our surprise, was that, in three weeks,
we were doing more deliveries
that we had done in 33 weeks
in the Bay Area. Then, we launched Boston
and Boston was growing even faster
than Chicago did.
Then, we launched DC. DC was growing
even faster than Boston,
Chicago or the Bay Area.
Then, we continue to launch more
and more cities and, today,
we're in 10 cities in the United States
and our revenue is growing by 10 percent
week over week and has been going like
that for 20 weeks so far.
As we have grown as a company
and as a team, we have to now make
everything scaleable. And, this is
exceptionally hard.
We have customers who are placing
orders for two items or for 60 items.
We have customers replacing instant
orders or scheduled orders.
They could be from any part of the city
anytime of the day. And then, we have
crowdsource shoppers who could be working
from any part of the city at any time
of the day and some of them are slower,
some of them are faster.
And then, we have stores that are located
on all parts of the city with different
selection, different inventory levels.
So, how do you create this Amazon.com-like
experience, when you don't have
any warehouses, when you don't have
any trucks, and when you don't hold any
inventory. This is a very, very difficult
computer science and operations research
problem. But, we believe this is a very
important problem to solve. Because for
the first time in history, we have
retailers all across the United States,
who are coming online for the first time.
For the first time in history, we have
retailers who are able to provide a one
hour, two hour and same day delivery
experience to their customers.
And, for the first time in history,
they're able to do that
without having any infrastructure.
Now, I know, this is something we're,
there where we want to be
and we are one percent on the way there.
But, if there's something
that I've learned, so far, in my journey
it's that there are going to be
hundreds of failures and hopefully some
successes. So, if there's one thing
that I'd like you to take away from
this chat, it's the journey,
as a founder, is an extremely exciting
one. One that's filled with hundreds
of failures. But, if you persist for long
enough, you may just get lucky.
Best of luck.
[applause]