Title: Why You're Getting Zero Replies To Your Cold Emails
Video ID: wr6PMD06hP0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wr6PMD06hP0
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-09-12T14:00:16Z
Duration: PT12M42S
Views: 73302
Likes: 960
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 417

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
If you're just starting outbound and
your reply rates are low, maybe even
close to zero, this video is for you. As
a founder of my company, One Schkeema, I
personally generated and closed millions
of dollars in revenue through founder
sales. As a visiting partner at YC, I've
helped hundreds of YC companies improve
their outbound. So, in this video, we're
going to cover eight things that you can
do to improve your sales outreach. Tip
number one, you want to start manual
before you automate. The biggest mistake
I often see founders make, they'll come
to me during office hours and they'll
show me their email pipeline and it will
all be automated. They've loaded up a
tool, they blasted out a thousand emails
and they ended up getting zero replies.
The biggest issue with this is if you
get zero replies from a campaign that
you didn't give any thought to in the
first place, then at the end when you
have zero replies, you've learned
nothing. The problem could be your
messaging or your company targeting,
your prospect selection, your
deliverability, or your subject line.
So, my recommendation is to do at least
100 outreaches by hand before you
automate anything. It's honestly
probably going to end up being more. And
when I say by hand, I mean genuinely by
hand. Spend time thinking about one
individual person. What is her problem
specifically? What would actually
capture her attention? Visit her
LinkedIn page and read about her
company. Doing this homework personally
is how you'll come up with your highest
converting outbound ideas. Tip number
two, targeting beats perfect messaging.
I often see founders spending hours
tweaking their email copy, but they
barely even think about who they're
emailing. Outbound prospecting is kind
of like looking for a needle in a hay
stack. You need a person that has the
exact pain point that you solve or a
perfectly crafted message won't even
land. So, here's an example. I worked
with a company in the winter batch who
was selling an infrastructure product
that should have been sold to senior
engineering leaders. But when I opened
up his LinkedIn and looked at the
prospects that he was selling to, a lot
of them were Devril managers, GTM
managers. There was even a customer
success manager. He was sending hundreds
of these messages and was wondering why
he wasn't getting any replies. So, if
you spend a little bit more time
thinking about whether or not the person
you're sending the email to actually has
the painoint, you'll often end up seeing
a huge increase in your reply rates.
Those wrong job titles were never going
to buy, no matter how good your email
was. So, how do you find the right job
titles? The first thing that I typically
like to do is look at the customers that
you already have. Then look at the sales
process. Who is the person who is
pushing the last deal to close? Who
actually signed the contract? Who is the
person who paid? Look at all of their
job titles and then reach out to people
who have similar profiles. You should
also look at who has already replied to
your outbound. So, if you're at the very
earliest stages of your journey and you
don't have any customers or any replies
yet, ask yourself who in the
organization has the most to gain from
buying your software. Here's an example.
Imagine you're selling software that
monitors employee devices for security
purposes. A chief security officer might
get fired if there's a data breach, so
they would really be interested in
something like this. But an engineering
manager would probably rather not be
monitored at all, so they're not a great
person to target. It's also really
important to make sure that you're
reaching out to the right companies. One
mistake I'll often see companies make is
they'll do a search in a tool like Sales
Navigator and it will return a bunch of
profiles that maybe sort of match what
they were looking for but were actually
the wrong type of company. For example,
if you search for tech companies in
LinkedIn Sales Navigator, you're often
going to get a bunch of IT
implementation consultancies. So, you
want to be really thoughtful about how
you're using list building tools. Verify
individually that each company is a good
fit for your customer or your message is
going to fall on deaf ears. As you do
more outbound, you'll start to discover
clues about a company that indicate that
they need your product. These are called
intent signals. A great place to look is
often at job postings, as they'll tell
you a lot about a company's priorities.
Company growth is another very common
intent signal. Imagine you're building
compensation planning software.
Companies below 100 employees probably
aren't introducing levels for their
employees, so they won't need your
software. Companies above 500 probably
already have compensation bands set. So,
when they're crossing somewhere in that
100 employee range, that's a great
intent signal that they need your
product. Every product has signals like
this. Your job is to discover yours. One
more thing on targeting for closing your
very first customers. It's also far
easier to start with your warm network.
You really want to shake the tree to
make sure you hit everyone you know
because the conversion rates will be
much, much higher. Start with your
personal warm network and then ask for
interest from friends, families,
investors, your college roommate, a guy
you met at a cafe. truly whoever you can
think of. Tip number three, craft a
message worth reading. The single most
important thing you can do in your email
is to give a crisp explanation of how
you can help the person that you're
emailing. Think about the top three
things that keep your buyer up at night.
What would get them fired? What would
get them promoted? Why should they
believe that you can actually help them?
When you write an email and the buyer
thinks, "That's exactly the problem that
I have. They really get it." They're
likely to take the call even without
fully understanding or trusting your
solution. The truth is that executives
don't care about your product futures.
They don't care that you have blazing
fast uploads. They don't care that your
database is built in Rust. They're
worried about how they're going to hit
their quarterly target. For the product
explanation, I would try to make it just
one sentence. You don't want to spend
paragraphs and paragraphs of details
here. That's typically what the first
call is for. You want to make sure that
you establish credibility that you're
the right person to help. Two common
ways to do this are first to list the
names of other impressive companies that
you're helping or if you don't have that
yet, talk about your very relevant
background for solving this problem. At
the end of your email, you want to
include a very specific call to action.
It should be something like, "Got 20
minutes to hop on a call this week?"
Not, "Does this sound interesting to
you? You want to make it really easy for
them to follow up with you." Last, you
can include a calendar link or a few
time slots that work for you. Again, to
make it really, really easy for them to
schedule. You want to make sure to keep
your emails really short. People are
extremely busy and they're going to skim
your emails. Every filler word that you
use dilutes the ones that matter. As a
rough guide, five to eight sentences is
good for email. No more than two to five
for LinkedIn. Longer than that, you
should probably cut something. Here's an
example of an email that I think is
really good. It's from the founder of
Aptton, which is a YC company in the S24
batch. Here are some things I really
like about this email. First, notice
that it's written in a really informal
tone that makes him sound like a peer.
He's not using any jargon. He's not
trying to sound super impressive. This
is an email that could have come from
his friend. The next thing I like about
this is that he establishes credibility
by showing that he solved the same
problem at a previous reputable company.
This is that first line. I used to be a
software engineer at Tesla. We got crazy
good at using SMS to convert the people
who visited our website into car buyers.
The next thing I like about this email
is that it has a very clear call to
action. At the end, he says, "Would you
be open to an experiment to see if we
could improve your conversion rate by
using AI to reactivate leads?" As the
buyer, I'm thinking, "Okay, is this
something that I would want to
experiment with?" and it makes it really
easy for me to directly follow up with
him. The email also feels personalized
to Samir's company by mentioning that he
noticed on their website that they
collect phone numbers in the signup
process. And notice he barely spends any
time in the email at all explaining how
this product works. He focuses
exclusively on how he's going to help
Sumeir solve his problems. After you
write a great message, focus on your
subject line. You should also pay
attention to the first 20 to 30
characters of the body of your email
because that's what shows up in the
Gmail preview. Experimentation is the
best way to come up with great subject
lines. I find that creative and kind of
weird ones can end up being the winners.
For example, I worked with a company
selling an openclaw style agent product.
The subject line broken agents performed
a lot better than the more descriptive
but less interesting better agents for
every workflow. Tip number four, improve
your LinkedIn profile. If email has
subject lines, LinkedIn has your
profile. It's how people decide whether
or not to accept your connections and to
reply. Here are a few quick tips for
making sure that your profile is great.
The first one is you want to make sure
that you have a profile picture. It will
really increase your trust level and
show your prospect that you're actually
a real person. The second is you should
turn that banner on the top of your
LinkedIn page into an ad for your
company. Typically, it should have a
really clear and concise explanation of
what your company does. Make sure that
you avoid jargon here as well. The third
is you should rewrite your oneline
description and your about section for
your company into short, concise
descriptions of what your company does,
similar to what you put in your banner.
And fourth, elevate anything in your
profile that a buyer would care about,
like relevant, impressive experience by
cutting everything else that's
irrelevant. If you have this really long
about section that talks a lot about
your hobbies and other interests and
things that aren't relevant, your buyers
are less likely to see the ways that you
can help them. Another area to invest
for LinkedIn is building up your number
of mutual connections. The number of
shared contacts is the single biggest
predictor of whether or not somebody is
going to accept your connection request
in the first place. So, you should focus
on building relevant mutual connections
with your target audience because often
people within the same customer profile
are connected to each other. This takes
time, so you should make it a daily
habit to max out your connection
allowance. Tip number five, know what
your reply rates are telling you. At
first, your reply rates might be very,
very low, but that's okay. As long as
you're getting a few replies, you have a
baseline to improve on. Even just two to
three replies on 100 emails is a great
place to start iterating. If I'm working
with a founder that has on the order of
two to three replies on a 100 emails,
here's typically the order I'll start
debugging their outbound. First, I'll
make sure that they're contacting the
right person. Second, I'll make sure
that they're contacting the right
companies. Third, I'll make sure that
their subject lines are good. And then
only then will I actually start looking
at their messaging. After that, I'll
look at their materials. So, for
example, make sure their website looks
good and their LinkedIn profile looks
good. And then finally, I'll look at
deliverability. If you go through all
six of these areas and they all seem to
be reasonable and you're still getting
zero replies, this often might be
indicative of a deeper product market
fit issue. Tip number six, follow up.
And when they reply, reply fast. You
never want to just send one email
because it's very, very possible that
the person simply just missed it. I
typically like to follow up two to four
times spaced out by a couple of days.
For the last email that I send a
prospect, I often send what's called a
breakup message. This is something
usually to the effect of, "Since I
haven't heard back, it seems like sales
tax automation isn't a priority for you
right now, just let me know and I can
spare your inbox." You'll often get a
reply to that one. Reply rates I find
are much higher on these breakup emails
because it makes them really low
pressure for them to say no. A real no
is actually very useful to you. In
aggregate, the many nos improve who you
target in the future. Once you get a
reply, you should be like a heat-seeking
missile and that nothing is going to get
between you and getting onto their
calendar. Every founder will at least
once experience the very painful lesson
that time kills deals. So hopefully
maybe watching this video I will save
you from that lesson. Tip number seven,
block out time for outbound. This is
actually one of the biggest mistakes
that I see founders make. When you're a
founder, there are going to be so many
things competing for your attention. And
outbound is typically one of the least
fun things to do for most founders. So
you'll find excuses to do literally
anything else demanding your attention.
So you should come up with a concrete
plan. Decide how many messages am I
going to send per day? How long does it
take for me to send a typical message?
When exactly am I going to send these
messages? It might sound like
micromanaging yourself, but I actually
like to put it on my calendar to hold
myself accountable. You can also have
your co-founder hold you accountable if
it's hard for you to do yourself. The
number one difference between founders
who actually succeed without founders
who don't is actually following through
on the activity that they commit to. Tip
number eight, use the messaging from
your customers. The best feedback on
your messaging always comes from your
customer. Not a friend, not an adviser,
and not your co-founder. Here are a
couple ways that you can get great
messaging from your customers. First, on
the sales call, one of the first
questions I like to ask is, "What got
your attention about my message?"
They'll typically tell you the
particular lines in your message that
they thought were most interesting, and
you should make sure to include those in
future messages. It also gets them
open-endedly talking about their
problems, which is exactly what you want
in a first call anyway. The second thing
I like to do for this is ask your
existing customers how they think about
your product. Ask them the single thing
that got them to buy and then use their
phrasing in future messages. Your
customers are always going to write
better copy than you do. I know that
outbound can be a slog. I have
personally sent thousands of outbound
emails in my life. But before you go
though, one reminder. You're the founder
and that's your superpower here. The
slog also pays off because your customer
knowledge will compound over time.
You'll spot a job posting and instantly
know that that company has pain. You'll
learn why it's better to talk about
painoint A instead of painoint B with
smaller companies. No salesperson or
agency will ever be able to learn about
your customers the way that you can.
Your outbound will only get easier over
time. Thanks so much for watching. Go
close some deals.
[music]