Title: Harshil Mathur: AI Is Compressing Every Moat
Video ID: X5bABLCuIHA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5bABLCuIHA
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-05-06T12:00:57Z
Duration: PT31M35S
Views: 14290
Likes: 444
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1078

Description:
Razorpay is India's largest payments platform, processing over $180 billion annually. They were also the first Indian company YC ever invested in, and went through the W15 batch.

In this fireside at Startup School India, co-founder and CEO Harshil Mathur sat down with YC's Jon Xu to talk about the early days of building a payments company in India, the near-death moments that shaped the company's culture, and what he's learned about staying in founder mode ten years in.

Chapters:
0:00 – Intro


============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

B2B is a business of trust. And the
trust at the end of the day nothing
replaces the human touch point of trust.
Right? You pick up the phone, you call
even today like just having somebody a
human on the other side saying that yes,
I'm with you. I'm managing it gives a
lot of trust.
It's so exciting to sit here and chat
with Harshil.
Um
I followed along I've been a fan for a
long time.
Um now to give some context because I
would say that Razorpay really needs no
introduction, but just to set some
context, Razorpay went through YC in
winter of '15, 2015. Uh and it was the
first uh Indian company that Y
Combinator ever invested in. And um you
know, from then till now it's it's the
largest uh payments platform in India
and it's grown at breakneck pace. And
what I think is really interesting about
the story is I love to learn more about
sort of the early struggles. You know,
many of the folks in the audience were
probably um
kind of where you were in the beginning,
right? And um there's a lot of lessons
and interesting uh parts of your journey
that I think everyone could benefit
from. So, maybe what we do is rewind the
clock a little bit. And so, did you, you
know, kind of growing up and and in your
undergraduate um studies, was it always
the plan for you to start a company?
Like what what was your mindset at the
time?
Yeah, no, definitely not.
So, I think I I was a techy by
background. Uh
loved to code during college. From
school days, loved to code, loved to
build stuff. And [snorts] when I was
getting into college, even before we
started Razorpay, I had no idea of
finance or finances systems and so on.
Like I just loved to code. Uh so, like
getting into Razorpay and getting into
building payments in a regulated space
was definitely not in the cards
completely. But when I graduated from
college, I went into a job. I got placed
into an oil company like you get into
IIT placements and went to work in an
oil company for in Middle East and I
never really enjoyed it. Oil was not
really my calling. So, I used to spend
my weekends and evenings and like a lot
of people I didn't really have a lot of
life outside work. So, I used to spend
those days evenings and weekends coding
and building stuff. And for one of those
things we I had to accept payments.
So,
I was building a social crowdfunding
platform most like a side project and
wanted to accept payments for it. So,
went through the standard channels,
standard approach, approached banks and
all of that and really
it was fairly complicated to accept
payments in India. First it was very
hard to get just get started.
And even if you get get started like the
experience was very like really really
poor because it was not built for
techies to start accepting payments. It
was built for large companies to start
accepting payments. And that seemed like
a like take a typical techie mentality
is how hard could this be? So, I thought
that maybe maybe it's easier and in
hindsight it was a very dumb question.
But but now I but I can say that it at
that point it felt like this seems like
just a simple problem. Why is nobody
solving it?
And I started spending all my time
figuring out like what other people are
doing. Facebook was very popular then.
So, I would go to Bangalore startups,
Pune startups Facebook groups and see
what other people are doing and I saw
almost everyone had the same problem
when they were starting up that payments
is extremely hard in India. In fact, it
was easier to accept cash in India than
to accept digital payments.
And which as a techie made no sense to
me. Like the point of technology, the
point of internet, everything has been
democratization, right? So, social media
gives everyone a voice, internet gives
everyone a channel, e-commerce gives
everyone a selling point. So, it
democratizes, right? So, when when a
digital system is harder than a physical
system it it does the reverse of
democratization. It creates silos. And
that felt like a completely incorrect
wrong thing for us. So, I started
spending a lot of time figuring that out
and that's how I got into payments. But
as I say now that it was fairly a very
hard business to get into and if I knew
what I knew today maybe I would have not
not started.
Yeah, I I think this is actually an
interesting pattern for for B2B
companies because I think
I I I I love to understand because it
wasn't
what I find really interesting is that
it wasn't your actual idea to begin
with. And so, what kinds of you know, as
you sort of develop that first version
of the product, was there a moment when
you said, you know, look, this is
clearly not going to work and maybe I
should just go build something else or
did you know, you said it sort of
naturally led to some insights. How deep
did you have to get into the weeds in
order to get those insights? So we
really wanted to build in online
payments, but we had to choose a GTM
strategy. So So at that point of time we
thought we'll start by selling to
educational institutes and the payments
for education because it seemed like
e-commerce was a small and harder market
to get into. So we thought education
seems large because there are a lot of
fees payments in India. Most of those
fee fees payments were done through
physical channels or non-digital
channels. We thought if we can convert
the fees payments in India into digital,
it could be a very large opportunity.
And it sounds logically right like
massive amount of fees is collected by
schools and universities and can
distress that and make some small
percentage on that, it could be a really
good opportunity. So that's how we
create a plan. In fact, we applied to YC
by saying that we're going to go into
education institutes.
What happened is once we got into YC, we
started selling to education institutes
and I would go I remember like I was in
Jaipur and I would go into small
universities and all so on and try to
convince them that hey, why don't you
accept your fees digitally? And the guy
would look at me and say if they pay
digitally, they're going to pay you 1%
extra. I said yes. He said, then why
don't I charge this 1% more fees? Right?
So
uh and that's when you realize that your
real customer doesn't really care about
digital collections. Like our education
institute didn't really care. They knew
that if they want whatever way they
charge the fees, the guy is going to
come and pay it because education in
India is that kind of a business. That
if you're in a college and the guy says
I don't I don't collect digitally, I'll
only collect cash, you'll go and give
cash. He says I won't collect check. He
says you have to go to this counter and
pay, you'll go out to that counter and
pay. So nobody really cared about
smooth, easy collections in education.
So
on the parallelly we started selling to
startups because we were working in a
co-working setup and a lot of startups
are our friends who wanted to do
payments. So, they said, "Why don't you
give it to us?" And we started getting
traction there. So, we quickly pivoted
our way and said that this is sector is
growing, even though it's small, it's
growing for us. This is a sector that's
definitely not working for us. So, we
completely pivoted away into startups
and I think it was really good decision
in hindsight. Interesting. That's I love
how because you were kind of in the
weeds with the customers and and in
front of them and like watching them and
understanding their problem, you kind of
got those insights. Um
I'm I'm curious sort of as you look at
the fintech space and you mentioned that
it wasn't if you knew how complicated or
difficult the problem was, you know, you
maybe maybe it would have been a
different way that you would have
started. Um
but as you look at regulated industries,
as you started to continue to build the
product, um
was there a moment when you said,
"Actually, this is going to give me
um more energy." Or this is actually the
the hardest problem actually gives you
more energy or perhaps more moat over
time.
So, let me talk about how our journey
started. So, we decided to start into
building to payments. We applied to YC.
We got into YC. We spent the 3 months of
YC without doing single live transaction
because we didn't get an approval from
the partners. So, we got an in principle
approval before YC. It took us a year
after that to do our first live
transaction. Now, very few businesses in
the tech world have that kind of a
gestation period. Most tech businesses
you can start off out of your bedroom,
start selling. You can build an
e-commerce store, start selling. And
typically, YC also recommends just go
and start sell selling first. We were in
a business where we couldn't start
selling. We needed to wait for
approvals. We needed to wait for up
things. Yeah, even after getting into
YC, it took us almost a year to do our
first live transaction because that's
how complicated regulated businesses
are. We had to wait for a license. We
first had to get a lot of
certifications, approvals, licenses,
then the final approval, then we could
do first live transaction.
The So, while all of that sounds fairly
complex, though, and our teams used to
think discuss that hey, it's taking us a
year to do our first live transaction.
Like how do we have that patience? One
thing that I kept telling us is that
yes, there are a lot of hurdles, but
everyone coming after us will also face
the same hurdles. So, it's the hurdles
become a moat over time because unlike
most spaces in India which get funded,
we are still in a space where there are
still much lesser number of companies in
competition because it's not very easy
to just bring build a payment gateway,
get the get an approval started. You
don't have 100 companies coming up in
our space in a month because it's not
easy to build in that. So,
the the the regulation can seem unfair
to you times, but the best part is it's
actually very fair.
With no no company, no matter how big or
small they are, they have to clear the
same set of guidelines, same set of
rules, follow the same one-year process
that we followed to get an approval and
go live. And very few companies will
have the patience or the energy to go
through that effort. So, that itself
creates a very deep moat that it's not
easy to get into that space. So, I'd say
regulated businesses are hard in the
sense that you have there are certain
set of rules you have to comply with,
but it also allows you to build a very
deep moat once you comply with them
because everyone coming after you also
has to do the same job. And that makes
that that allows you to create a lot of
differentiation on top. Yeah. And And is
that what gave you ultimately the
conviction because I think, you know,
these types of cold start problems are
very very difficult and you have to wait
a year, you had to go well beyond YC to
sort of like land that first solve that
first cold start problem. Was there a
moment when you said, "Actually, you
know, this is going to take too long?"
Or or are you Did you get conviction as
you were building?
I think we every every like say it's
easy to say today that yeah, we had
conviction. It was It wasn't really the
case. Like every single month I would
sit with my co-founder and say, "Why are
we building in this space? Like why
don't we do something else? Why don't we
Like there were companies getting funded
in e-commerce, companies getting funded
in food delivery and so many spaces."
And we said, "Why don't we just do that?
Why don't we we we are techies at the
end of the day. We can spend our time
coding something else. We can spend our
time building something else." But we
connected with the problem so much
because we spoke to so many founders, so
many people who could be our customers.
And I think that gave the highest form
of energy. Every single customer we
started meeting, everyone said, "Yes, we
have a problem. Yes, so nobody's solving
it." And that gave us the conviction
that yeah, it is hard, but the hard See,
if it is hard to sell to customers, it's
a problem. If it's hard for other
reasons, it's not really a problem. It's
actually a moat. Because if it's hard
for other reasons, then nobody else will
get into the problem. And And if your
customers really care about it, once you
build it for them, they'll really love
you. So, once we started getting
customers, once we were actually able to
start onboarding customers, the
customers loved it. Hey, finally you are
there. Finally there's something who
solves for us the way we wanted it to be
solved. And I think that really created
a really more than we had a lot of lot
of loss of conviction through this
process. The only thing that you kept us
going is like there were enough
customers. As YC says, make something
people want. So, as long as there were
enough number of people who wanted we
what we were building, I think we were
in a good shape.
Yeah, it's it's interesting. That's a
very common theme among really, really
um
really generational founders in building
generational companies is that
ultimately the customer kind of gives
you energy, right? And that's that's
really what what you focus on. Not
investors, not sort of regulatory
bodies, but really the customers that
give you that energy. Um one thing that,
you know, is often quoted is that
points of crisis or, you know, when you
kind of have these like near-death
experiences, um you can either survive
them or you can actually get out of them
stronger. And you know, in our
conversations, there's some near-death
moments or or crisis moments. Would love
to hear a a a moment when you thought
maybe things were going to end and how
you kind of tackled it. And how did the
company get stronger because of it?
Yeah, it keeps happening in our business
we are in. Uh
I can tell you one of the early days,
right? We got a bank approval. We got a
Like I was telling you throughout the YC
time, uh we were not live.
Just a week before demo day, we got a
final approval and we actually went live
and launched. In fact, before demo day,
we were considering that YC has an
option that you can delay and do the
next demo day. So, we were discussing
not to launch uh on demo day because
you're not ready. But we got approval
week before demo day. We did TechCrunch
launch. We went live. All great. We did
the demo day. A lot of investors were
interested. About 2 weeks after demo
day, the bank that had enabled us pulled
the plug. They said like
there were some issues some one customer
did a complaint and they said we can't
support you anymore and they completely
stopped our platform. We had at least 50
customers live merchants live who were
using us for payments.
And one day all of them were shut
because the bank pulled the plug. Now,
this is like the like it's the hardest
place you can be in a payments business
because your customers want to collect
money. Somebody has finally agreed that
they want to use a small payment gateway
like you to accept your money and and
now you have to tell them that hey we
your business is shut because our bank
pulled the plug. Uh
and I think that was a probably the
hardest time of the company because like
a lot of us were in the room. We tried
begging and pleading the bank that hey
give us some more time and they said no
we can't and it's done and they didn't
care and so
so I think the we had to take some very
like we had to discuss what we do
because in a payments business trust and
reliability is so critical that once
these guys go out and say hey Razorpay
like
duped us or whatever and then our
business is impacted because of them and
we had just done a YC launch. Like it
could be its own set of things and then
we'll never be able to establish trust.
And the one fundamental principle we set
is that we'll call every single customer
and tell what is happening exactly why
it is happening and what we are doing
about it. We'll I think a lot of times
when this crisis happens people stop
picking up calls. People stop responding
because you don't have much to say like
what do you tell your customers? He's
going to he's going to pick up the phone
and scold you.
We said we'll get all the scolding,
we'll hear all the abuses, but we'll
never stop picking the phone, we'll
never stop calling these people and
telling what's happening. So, we had a
like six seven of us six of us sat in a
room, started calling each and every
customer, explaining what's happening. A
lot of them understood. A lot of them
didn't understand. A lot of them abused
us and I can tell you like uh
in when Indians abuse they abuse a lot.
So, so they're like full on Hindi abuses
that our team had to and me I personally
had to listen to. But we said it's okay.
We'll listen through it. We'll hear them
out. We'll let them vent their
frustration. We'll tell them what's
happening. And we kept doing that. And
it took us about four or five days
before which we could get another live
partner and we could take it live. And
then we were able to get a lot of these
merchants live. And even some of those
merchants some of the merchants who even
abused us are still live with us with
Razorpay even today
because
Yeah.
Because at the end of the day like B2B
is so unlike B2C B2B is a business of
trust, right? That's and in particularly
in financial institutions it's a
business of trust. And the trust at the
end of the day nothing replaces the
human touch point of trust. Right? You
pick up the phone. You call even today
like
for when customers raise a support query
or questions, we have a rule that if it
crosses two or three or fours exchanges,
you pick up the phone and call the
customer. And you do be like just having
somebody a human on the other side
saying that yes I'm with you and I'm
going to I'm managing it gives a lot of
trust even though the efficiency might
be weaker, the trust coming out of that
is stronger. So for example a lot of
companies are using AI to replace
support today. And we've taken a call
that we are using AI in everything
except replacing customer support.
Because in customer support in our case
customer support is not about solving
the problem. It is a channel to
establish trust that hey we are here.
There's somebody as a human spending his
time on solving a problem and we can't
take that away. So it I think that
fundamental got us set up for us because
of the crisis because we learned that
even when we had the worst of worst
happening to us, just because you're
picking the phone and ask saying that
hey I'm on top of it and I'm spending my
time just figuring this out gave a lot
of trust to these people. That's that's
dedication. That's very inspiring. I
think
that's a hugely important lesson for
building any company but certainly very
very much for a trust-based company. One
of the interesting things about
our conversation was this notion of
conviction that you guys had very early
on. And you know, this was a time and I
think, you know, folks probably realize
maybe some of the folks here are a
little bit too young to remember, you
know, the UPI systems wasn't there.
Demotization has not happened yet.
And so, early days,
there are many competitors, a particular
competitors from overseas, competitors
locally. And, you know, they would say
things like, you know, we're going to
we're in this space already. You don't
know anything. You don't have the
background. We're going to crush you.
How about we just buy you?
Or, you know, and they're certainly
motivated by some amount of fear
associated with that, right? So,
what was your mindset at the time? Like,
what gave you conviction to keep going
when in some of those cases, I think
some founders probably would have said,
well, you know, maybe we we pack it up
and and join one of these companies or
maybe we're not going to win.
Yeah, and I I think that that happened
very early. Like, in in our space, it
actually happened very early. When we
were in YC, even before we launched, we
started getting acquisition offers from
from one of the some of the largest
payment companies in the world started
saying that, hey, because of YC, we got
noticed. So, some of the large payment
companies or founders of them reached
out and said, why don't you join us or
why don't you build India for us and so
on.
I think it and I think some of those
were actually exciting cuz the companies
were really good.
I think what kept us going is A, India's
very very hard and very different. So,
when we met a lot of these companies,
global companies,
I felt they didn't understand how
complex India is. And the worry from
that perspective was not that what will
happen today, but our worry was that 2
years years out, the amount of
investment India needs.
So, [snorts] India is a massive
opportunity today, but in 2014, 2015, if
you looked at India, India like the
payment volume was $60 billion,
right? The total GMV. That's what I put
it in my business plan, my YC
application, I put the payments market
of India is $60 billion.
Today, Razorpay alone does $180 billion,
right? So, that is the way the market
has grown in last 10 years, right? So,
it's so hard to
it's so hard to plan for India. Now, if
I told a company that hey, for a $60
million market, we need $500 million to
build, it's going to be very hard to
convince them. But if I if somebody
understood that a $60 million market is
going to scale up massively, right? And
there's a lot of opportunity that he's
going to have. Even today I feel 180 is
very small. India is going to be a
trillion plus market at least in
payments, right? But it's very hard to
explain that to a global player who's
not seen that because most of the
markets in the world are not growing at
that pace.
So, I think for us it was very clear
that if you have to solve India, you
have to think a very long-term
perspective. And if if you were ever to
consider that we need to have a partner
who's going to be able to understand
that that is a long-term play of India.
And we didn't find that. So, I think for
us the answer became very clear that
unless we feel that what we want to
achieve we can achieve faster with
somebody else, there's no reason to work
with somebody else. And we never found
that. Yeah, your your insights were
pretty unique in that regard, I think.
Um
So, it did work and it did start to take
off. And you know, um there was a
period, I think um
in sort of 2017-2020,
um even before the pandemic, where you
guys had grown some insane multiple,
like 40x. Um at What What was amazing
about that wasn't just the growth. It
was that you guys did it with record
capital efficiency.
What was your mindset in that? Because,
you know, I think we you know, we get a
lot of questions obviously about how
much money do I need to raise? Um I need
to do this thing and therefore I need to
raise a lot of capital to do it. Um but
you guys were able to grow, you know, at
a breakneck pace, but stay very, very
capital efficient and very lean. What
was What What was that mindset? Yeah, it
is uh
in fact, it's again a great thing in
hindsight, but if you know the 2015 to
2020 time period, it was not really
considered a good thing for a company to
burn less money. Like there's a there's
a time when people were Investors
expected you to burn a lot of money. So,
we raised like when we raised our Series
A funding, we raised like about 11 10 11
million dollars.
We didn't really have that much burn.
Our burn was less than $200,000 a month.
So, we took that money and we put it in
a bank FD's,
uh, fixed deposits in India.
Uh,
the interesting part was the interest on
the deposits was more than our burn. So,
we became profitable. And, uh,
our investor was very unhappy with that
because he was like, "We have given you
this money to burn and grow. Why are you
Why are you making profits out of it?"
And we had to explain that because
they were investing in a lot of other
consumer companies which were burning
massive amount of money. And here we
were with $11 million. We were growing
their money just because of interest
rate. And that made them very unhappy.
So, it was a very hard conversation in
hindsight. But I think for us it was
very clear. We We are in a B2B business,
right? You know, B2B is a very logical
business, right? Unlike B2C which in my
belief because I'm a B2B founder, I find
it very logical because you do In B2C
you have to first get the customer,
spend a lot of money, get the spend a
lot of money to grow the customer, spend
a lot of money to build engagement, and
then at some point through some other
channel you monetize that customer.
In B2B it's very simple. You add a value
to a business, the business pays you for
it. It's a simple business that you go
to a business, you say, "Hey, I'm adding
this value to you. This is what I need
to charge for it." Either the business
likes it or dislikes it, but that's how
it is. There's no point of burning money
for it. There's no point of spending
money to engage and all of that because
the business going to be logical. He
uses you today because you add value. If
you tomorrow stop adding value, he uses
somebody else. There is There is modes
and there is depth in product, but at
the end of the day it's the it's about
the value you add to that their life. I
think for us it was very clear. We told
the investor that like I can burn a lot
more money and grow a lot faster. It's
not going to do anything because there's
no point of that. It's not a dow mau
business where I can have that dow and I
can say, "Hey, tomorrow this is going to
be worth this much value." It has as
much value as the value I'm adding to
him today. If I stop adding the value,
he's going to move out tomorrow. And
that makes the business far more
logical, but also
there's a lot of intensity to the
business because every day you have to
fight for your share. Your the business
uh
decision maker on the other side is
every day evaluating, "Are you still
adding more value than you're charging
me for?" Because if you're not, then
he's going to find something else. And
it is easy to say, but it's harder to
constantly compound, especially as the
org gets larger. So, to give an example,
like you said, like UPI was launched
in 2016, April 2016. Actually, we just
celebrated 10 years of UPI. April 2016
is when UPI was launched.
Uh
there were a lot of payment gateways at
that point of time, and I don't know if
people here would remember, but in 2016
when UPI was launched, there were a lot
of skeptics. A lot of people didn't
believe that UPI would take off. The two
largest banks of the country hadn't
integrated on UPI till demonetization
happened, till November 2016.
So, most payment gateways in India
actually didn't integrate UPI at all,
because they felt that with the
without the two largest banks of the
country being on UPI, who would use UPI,
uh right? So,
and that's where the value of being
small is so high, because we had nothing
to lose. We had 10,000 merchants. We
were very small. We had launched in
2015. This is 2016.
Uh in in September or October 2016, we
became the first payment gateway in the
country to go live on UPI, much before
the largest banks of the country had
gone live.
And then And then November is when the
largest banks went live, and then
demonetization happened.
And no other payment gateway was ready
to support UPI at the scale at which we
were. So, all the largest
companies We were only supporting SMEs
before that. But the largest companies
at that that point of time, Zomato,
Swiggy, BookMyShow, all of them went
live on Razorpay in a period of a couple
of weeks, because suddenly everyone
wanted UPI, and we were the only payment
gateway offering that. Now, that's the
advantage of being a small player that
you can make these bets early on. The
worst thing And we discussed with our
team, the worst that could happen that
UPI doesn't take off, it's fine. We're
still fighting the battle anyway. But if
it does take off, it creates a unique
wedge for us, and we can go out. And so,
that bet that early bet played out in a
massive way for us, because it took 6
months for any other payment gateway to
go live on UPI after we went live. And
in that 6 months, we were able to enter
spaces that we couldn't have entered if
there was no differentiator for us to
play on. And that is how it compounded
for us. That's that's such a classic, I
think, lesson. Yeah.
It's such a classic lesson. I mean, we
we talk a lot about, you know, being
able to be faster, right? Your rate of
building product, your rate of learning,
your ability to adapt to markets. And
those advantages accrue to startups.
This is a such a classic story and and
such an amazing indication that that
works. Um
I'm curious, um you know, as we look at
the age of AI, there's obviously
multiple things that it's fundamentally
shifted our thinking on product, on how
we run companies, right? Both of those
things. And I'm curious how you think
about the product. And I think you guys
recently launched, you know, core AI
functionality, uh layering in the
fundamental sort of AI backbone for
running a business. Um
how do you guys think about in
integrating AI into the product?
Yeah, I think AI is such a fundamental
shift. So, first, we have to calibrate
ourselves a lot, right? So, I think it
starts at the top. So, I am like I and
the leadership are spending so much time
on AI. Like I am addicted to Claude
codes so much right now.
Uh I was I was meeting the Anthropic
team yesterday and I was saying that
that you need to start having the
addiction programs because we like we
are spe- I'm personally spending so much
time on Claude code, on open Claude, and
so on. And it's so much fun and
exciting. And it allows like I think as
most founders like me start building
companies because we love building, we
love coding. But over time you the
layers get built in, the company gets
large, and you end up becoming people
manager. And honestly, no founder gets
into building a startup to become a
people manager. So, I think AI is such
an amazing tool because it allows you to
get back to building in some shape and
form. Uh and I think I personally have
been loving that. But the advantage of
that is that when you spend your time
doing that, you understand the power of
the tool. You understand the power that
technology brings in. And that is
allowing us to make some very
fundamental decisions. So, like couple
of months back, we just sat down and
said, "If I were to start raising a bit
today, how would I build it?" Right? And
we just started putting down on drawing
board that how would our integration
look like? How would our onboarding look
like? How would our support look like?
How would our platform look like? How
would people interact with us, how would
people use us? And we just put it all
down on a paper. And we said, "Okay,
like let's make that happen." Like this
because that's the incumbent policy,
right? Like you start believing that,
"Hey, we have everything. We are well
set." And I mean, Visa has disrupted a
lot of incumbents to get where we are.
And it is because of the ex- UPI example
was the same reason. Every- everybody
felt that we we are the largest payment
player. We are doing all the cards and
everything. If something changes, we'll
respond to it. But the respond to it the
the market changes faster than you can
respond. So, if you're going to respond
when the market is starting to change,
you're already too late. So, we said
that we are going to do the same thing
with AI.
And we're not going to act like an
incumbent. We're not going to act like a
startup. We're going to decide what
changes are happening and we are going
to bring these changes before a new
startup brings those in. So, we
completely reinvented the platform
end-to-end. We launched it a couple of
months back. And the traction has been
massive because like it fundamentally
allows you and some of this is not
perfect yet because AI is still
evolving. The tech is there, but not
fully there. Uh but you have to go with
that belief that it's going to get
there. It's improving every day. And so,
we had to spend a lot of time building
this, rewiring our teams, rewiring and
it's not easy because when you have
large pools of capital sitting, large
pools of teams sitting doing something
that they're doing every day, asking
them, "Hey, we'll hurt ourselves in
short term, but we're going to pivot
ourselves completely to what is going to
make sense long term." It is hard and
every team has that incumbent fallacy.
But it's the only way to survive in the
world that we're heading towards. AI is
going to bring down time to build so
rapidly that the only differentiation is
going to be how fast can you move? How
fast can you really decide what to build
because the build itself is a very short
process. I think that's the only mode I
think
I think we've seen that tech itself was
the only mode in tech became how fast
can you execute because a lot of other
things came down. There's not the
capital mode came down. The
infrastructure mode came down. I think
AI is going to bring down the building
mode as well because build itself is
going to be very easy. The only thing
you have to spend time is what to build.
How to build it? How should it look
like? But just the build itself is going
to compress massively. And every single
company will have to go through the
transformation. Now, some of them are
going to take the time and say, "Hey,
I'll respond to the market." Like any
company who takes that call that we're
going to respond to the market is
already dead. The only way to survive is
to figure out what the market is going
to be and move today and that's the call
we have to take.
This is true founder mode right right
here.
>> [laughter]
>> Um
that's amazing. That's amazing. Um you
know, as as you look at your journey,
your startup journey, um
you know, you've you've grown from um
you know, a few people maybe in an
apartment in in Jaipur when you started
to now sort of one of the generational
companies. How have you think you've
changed? You know, as you scale,
certainly the business changes, the
organization changes, um but one of the
things that we often hear is that
founders that choose to build um and
have this intensity to build, they
change. They become a better version of
themselves or a more formidable version
of themselves. As you reflect on your
journey, what has changed about you?
Yeah, and I think there are a lot of
learnings in the 10 years and it's not
that we did everything right. I did a
lot of mistakes. Uh let me speak about
like for example, some of the mistakes
like the founder mode that he spoke
about like, I loved that essay when it
came out because we went through that
same journey. What happens as a founder
you typically start a company, you are
into it every day the first 2 3 years,
you're ramping up, you're figuring out,
you're in the trenches. Then the company
starts taking off. Then you start hiring
a bunch of executives, you start hiring
a lot of leaders and you start feeling
that, "Hey, now I have good leaders that
can take care of what I used to do and I
don't need to spend my time on that. I
can just manage the leaders." And that's
what the essay says, manager mode. And a
lot of founders shifted to manager mode.
I myself shifted to manager mode for a
couple of years where I said, "I have
the best leaders. The leaders know what
they are doing. Why do I need to get
into everything? Like let me just manage
the leaders." And that's the worst
mistake you can do. Now, there's a fine
line between
micromanagement and being in founder
mode, right? So, you don't want to be
micromanaging everything, but the things
that really matter to you, the founder
has to get into it. For example, as a
product company, the product vision, the
product direction, the way a founder is
going to think about it, no leader can
ever think about it. So, like I think
when we have to all and I've spoken to a
lot of founders who had to go through
the journey where you start acting in a
manager mode, you start getting the
leaders and you get the best leaders. We
had like there have been some amazing
leaders, but at the end of the day, what
differentiates a company is the
founder's conviction on something that
your day-to-day execution people can't
take. And those decisions have to come
from founders. So, I I think the
fundamental point point is is that
nobody's going to care about your
company as much as you do. And that that
is never going to change. It's not going
to happen on day one, it's not going to
happen on day year 10, it's not going to
happen on year 20. And I think every
every company, whether it's Facebook or
whether it's
any large company that's run by the
founder, the founder slowly and quickly
realize that nobody no good leader can
care about your company as much as you
do. And I think we had to go through the
journey. So, I think that journey took
almost 10 years for me to personally see
that hey, I need to be into the core
things that matter to the company is
something I need to be there and I need
to spend my time on it. And everything
else I can delegate. And I think that
learning took a lot of time.
Um one last quick question from me. So,
as as we look at, you know, the over
2,000 people that are here that maybe
reflect where you were when you started,
what advice would you have for folks to
take actionable steps to get building
and to get started on a on a company?
Yeah, I think the
the core premise of like
entrepreneurship, right? I think like AI
is making a lot of stuff easier, right?
So, people are thinking, "Hey, maybe
entrepreneurship will get easier." I
don't think entrepreneurship is going to
get easier because of AI. I think the
fundamental tools required to be build a
company are getting easier, but the core
aspect of entrepreneur is the ability to
connect with a problem deeply and spend
all of your time and effort in solving
that problem, right? And I think with
AI, my worry is that because it's easier
to build, it's easier for people to
latch onto problems that they don't
really care about, right? Because it's
easier to say, "Hey, I can write code,
something I can build something and
deploy this and I can start going live.
I think what every founder really needs
to think is is this something that you
can spend your next 10 years of your
life building because that's what it's
going to take. It is going to be easy to
build and deploy a software on AI today.
It can be as easy to deploy a website on
AI today, but is there a problem
statement that you can spend your 10
years of your life building because
that's what it's going to take if you're
going to make build a successful
company. AI is going to make the build
process easier. The company building
part is still going to take 10 years of
your life and every day spending that
hour. So, need to find a problem
statement statement that you closely
connected not just because something is
cool or because AI allowed me to make
that
code that write project. The only thing
that's going to work is is there a
problem statement that you can spend all
of your time and effort for next 10
years solving for because that's what
it's going to take at the end of the
day. Inspiring. We're going to leave it
there. Everyone give it up for Harshil
Mathur from Razorpay.
Thank you.