Title: Max Hodak: Average Is Not Good Enough
Video ID: Xc4klGbq8v8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xc4klGbq8v8
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-08-07T21:30:32Z
Duration: PT57M2S
Views: 33655
Likes: 735
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1700

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

My name is Max Hodak. I'm the CEO of a
company called Science. Um, we're going
to talk a little bit about
infrastructure at startups. So, I've
spent most of my life working on brain
computer interfaces. This is almost 20
years ago now. Um, I started my career
as an undergrad working in a lab at
Duke. This is from our very first
Society for Neuroscience conference. The
experiment I was working on back then
was if you put electrodes in the brain
of a monkey and then give a monkey a
joystick and you record the neural
activity as it's playing a game. If you
make the joystick say go the cursor go
sideways when the when they push forward
on the joystick which does the brain do?
Does the brain represent the joystick or
the screen or something else? Um there
turns out that there are neurons that do
both. At our company science our main
product is a retinal prostthesis. It's a
chip that's implanted under the retina
in the back of the eye to restore vision
to patients that have gone blind due to
loss of the rods and cones in their eye.
Um on the left, this is one of our
patients on the cover of Time last uh
last November. Um on the right, you can
see there's a picture of the implant
with the glasses. So every little one of
those hex grids that you see on the
implant is essentially a solar cell. So
when this is implanted under the retina,
the patient wears glasses that have a
camera that sees the world and a laser
projector that projects onto the
implant. And wherever the when it
projects the image in infrared, wherever
the light is absorbed on the implant, it
creates a little electric field to
excite the retina, thereby directly
bypassing the dead rods and cones to
stimulate um this visual signal back
into the into the retina at the first
possible opportunity. And this is this
is pretty this is a pretty cool product.
It finished major clinical trials uh
last year. It's been in three clinical
trials now. Um was covered in the the
BBC last fall. One of our patients
finished a 300page novel with the device
and mailed us the book. But I'm I'm not
going to talk about this work for the
most part for the next 30 minutes. Um,
we're going to talk about infrastructure
and lessons. I mean, this is startup
school. Maybe there's some things that
you'll find useful in your company. So,
Picasso uh was noted for saying that
when art critics get together, they talk
about form and structure and meaning.
And when artists get together, they talk
about where to buy cheap tarpentine.
This is also often phrased as amateurs
talk strategy, professionals talk
logistics. a quote from a guy that the
United States named a tank after.
And there are so there are surprisingly
few lessons that are really broad across
companies. Typically the experience of
running a startup is you're just looking
at kind of a continual stream of facts
that hit your desk every day and you're
trying to make the best local decision
that you can in the for those facts and
if it looks inconsistent over weeks
that's usually the way to go. But there
are a couple topics that keep kind of
very repeatedly coming up that are kind
of universal experiences at least for uh
deep tech companies which is the thing
that I I kind of know most of my
experiences in not just pure software.
Um and so there are things that keep
coming up like buying things. Um so your
first reaction might be that if you do
software you don't need to buy things.
It will be me alone in an empty room
with some computers writing software and
this is going to be how we build a
company. And if this is you, yes, you
have figured out a reason why VCs love
funding software and why they've done so
much of it for the last 25 years. But if
you do anything other than pure
software, you will be buying many many
thousands of things. This is us uh about
I think six months into the company. Um
and it's a little tough to make out.
There are a lot of computers. There's
also a bunch of microscopes and other
electronics and 3D printers and resin
and PCBs. You're buying things really
continuously. And so it might sound
really obvious, like a really basic
question like you like you surely just
buy things. Um, so for you as the
founder, you can use a credit card.
Credit cards work great. You can buy
lots of things with credit cards. You
can also send a wire transfer. The
question is, how does your 17th employee
buy things? Do they have a credit card?
Let's say you hand out credit cards to
all of your employees and tell them to
buy what they need. So, you're going to
you start getting messages like this.
Um, and
the and you think like, you know, I care
about burn. We have to spend
efficiently. I'm going to approve all
the purchases as they happen. And you
get a message like this. And then you
think, $3,000 sounds like a lot for a
power supply. Do we need a $3,000 power
supply? What if we get one from an
auction? Like, in 3 days there's an
auction. maybe we'll get it for half
off. We can get it in two weeks. But
then you also remember that you've hired
some very highly paid and talented
employees. And are you saying they can't
get the tools that they need? That
you're spending $100,000 a week. If you
wait a week to get a power supply half
off, you have certainly dwarfed any
possible benefit from getting it. And
then, you know, and if they were
anthropic, they're not going to be
getting hassled over a $3,000 purchase.
They're just going to have a power
supply. And so what you realize is not
only is this very hard to keep burn
under control, but also it's just this
is the inappropriate place to exercise
spending review. Spending review has to
come earlier. You have to have some
concept of budgeting. It's not really
about even just the payment rail of
buying a thing. It's how do you
understand the bucket of money that you
have. And I don't want to be making the
$1,500 power supply versus $3,000 power
supply trade-off. They need to
understand the resources that they have
so they can make trade-offs within those
available resources. So, you set up a
procurement system and now your highly
paid employees are spending their days
clicking around B2B enterprise ass. And
it turns out that from the time that
they place an order for a power supply,
it takes two weeks to arrive because you
can't actually buy that with a credit
card. You have to set up an account with
the vendor and deal with insurance and
certification paperwork and get an
account set up. And they have to
generate a quote so that you can
generate a purchase order so that you
can generate an invoice. And now
everyone's upset that things are taking
super long to get ordered. And and so
this actually really requires like a
like this is a living organism. I like
when people move from academia to
startups, I think one of the reactions
that people often have is like why are
there people whose job there is to
purchase things? Surely I can just buy
things. But absolutely there are people
whose job is to buy things. From the
time that you submit the order, going
back and forth with the vendor to set
all of this up is very timeconuming and
it can easily stretch out. It takes like
active management to metrics to cause
this thing these things to go fast. And
I think part of why like when we think
about this, we have a a reputation I
think of often being very quick and
people are unsure like how does that
happen? It is mostly not that we are
smarter. It is infrastructure like this.
That is the the like how speed is built.
So now people can buy things at least
you can keep overall burn under control.
Now you know that you're not going to
exceed some large amount of spending
every month. And then you realize that
that wasn't really the problem. You
could figure out your runway. The
problem is attribution is when you're
doing whether you're working on rockets
or cars or drugs or brain computer
interfaces or um all like anything that
involves dealing with the real world,
you realize that one of your other
problems is that you're buying stuff in
bulk. Like we buy gases from argon to
silene to nitrogen
um to resins to media and then we we buy
these things in bulk and we part them
out to lots of different experiments.
Um, now when you do this, it breaks this
attribution is pretty difficult. And so
if nobody knows how much an experiment
costs, like every time you like grow up
a new cell line or every time we make a
new a new probe in in the fab, how much
does that loop cost? Nobody knows.
Therefore, experiments are free. Um, it
doesn't cost dollars. It costs media.
And media comes from the fridge. And we
want to know what how do we price a
thing that we make? Like we make a bunch
of things in volume in the foundry. We
want to know what can we sell that for?
That requires all of these spreadsheets
to get an estimate of the pricing. And
there's opinions in here. Like these are
not all facts like how much do you
include rent? How much do you include
depreciation of the tools? This comes
with opinions about your future volume.
All of this is required to understand
not just what you should charge but also
what you're spending and what your
runway is. And so to deal with this,
we've built a huge amount of internal
software at the company um for for
managing this. One of the first things
that we did is almost everything that
you can do in the company is a button
somewhere in the software. We call it
Helix, including stuff like purchasing.
But because this extends all the way
through to manufacturing where we have
every step that happens in the lab in
the database, we can correlate all of
this through and get this information.
And these like again, so it turns out
that for every iteration of a wafer that
we make, in this case, for this
protocol, it cost $40,000. This is like
a lot of money. And you like you might
have raised let's say you raised $20
million in a series A you think you need
four years you need 20 people in my
experience about half the burn is
headcount so that's so let's say 20
people that's probably three three and a
half that's like three million a year in
revenue that's half of your burn um you
need 20,000 square feet about $4 a
square foot that's another 750,000 to a
million a year so now suddenly you've
got really it's a $3 million a year
research budget for three or four That
goes way faster than you think. But
again, your team see saws um just saw
that you raised a larger amount of money
than they've ever seen in their lives
and they think that the $3,000 power
supplies are free. Um this is pretty
important. This is a thing that actually
this infrastructure actually determines
success or failure in many companies.
Another universal experience is hiring.
Um so hiring also I think really
separates the successes from the
failures. Startups usually don't come
out of nowhere. I think the best
companies in my experience come from
what might be characterized as scenes.
There's like a moment that enables a new
company to be born and there's a bunch
that comes together that really creates
this like unique nucleation for the new
company. And once that moment is passed
because some some company has has
executed on it or just the time has
gone, it's kind of tough to get back.
And so the the best hiring comes from
within your network, people that you've
worked with before, you know are good.
Um, and the extended version of that is
to hire from the network that produced
the startup. There's usually some
extended scene that the thing came out
of. There's a bunch of co-founders that
come together out of that crystallize
out of that, but then there's an
extended community and that should
really be the target of your initial
marketing. Um, these are the people that
already speak your language, already
familiar with it, but there's never
enough of them to really fill an entire
company. You have to hire from the
general public. Um, so there's different
companies hire in different ways.
There's different processes that make
sense to different founders. this is the
thing that really is going to be matched
to who the founders are and how they
view the world. Um, and there's no one
right answer, but this is a thing where
you need a really defined process. There
is no right answer, but a wrong answer
for sure is not having something that
you do very religiously as a company.
Um, and this is an area where reality
has a surprising amount of detail. It
seems really straightforward like, oh,
you'll you like have a job board, you'll
get applications, you'll review them.
This very quickly becomes a huge huge uh
drag on the rest of your team. You could
easily spend almost all of your time
recruiting if you're not doing it
efficiently to get a to suboptimal
outcome. And so for us again, we've
built a lot of software to do this.
There are four steps to our process. The
first is that we've built a a software
interface for users to apply for
applicants to apply online where we can
capture some structured information from
them upfront um including the ability to
apply to multiple jobs um in parallel.
And so we originally used a a commercial
applicant tracking system. We've moved
this to our internal tools. Um, and one
of the reasons we did that is because
this allowed us to do something that we
couldn't find in any of the commercial
ATS's. So, when we the first step of our
process when users apply is it goes to
companywide voting. Um, this is a
heavily redacted uh version of of the
internal interface, but hopefully you
can make out the idea of what's going on
here. So in the the the applicant's
resumes in the middle, we collect a
little bit of other structured
information, but the most important
thing is on the the far right you see
this there's a question like how would
you vote for this candidate? Are they
known good, strong, yes, yes, no,
strong, no. And so when a person
applies, the system picks out seven or
eight current employees that it thinks
look something like their backgrounds
and it pings them all for votes. And so
we can distribute the voting across a
lot of the company for this initial
review, which is essential because if
you're doing anything cool, by the time
you get a couple years into it, that top
of funnel is overwhelming. And if you
place any in any small group of
employees or any one person in the way
as a bottle bottleneck on this, they
will absolutely bottleneck the whole
rest of the organization. And um it's
also you want to I think average over
judgment. I think there's different
people that are better or worse at
hiring and have different perspectives
on what you're looking for at that
stage.
And the so in the beginning as the
founder you can meet with everybody and
you should that will take you quite far.
You should definitely interview
everybody for quite a while but even
beyond that you still want to you want
ways to average over the judgment of the
rest of your team and voting mechanisms
are usually a really good way to do
that. So these are these are our actual
statistics over the last couple years.
So 17% of the top offunnel applications
that we get go to a phone screen. Again,
that first initial app voting stage is
drawn from a companywide pool so that we
can get fast we can get the voting done
quickly within usually 24 48 hours and
not bottleneck that on any small group
of people. The phone screen is again
drawn from a companywide pool of people.
This is not team specific. This is a
companywide bar really looking for three
things. Judgment, horsepower, and
agency. Like if we throw you into a
complex vaguely defined situation, will
you tell tend to make good decisions or
will you create diplomatic incidents?
Like do you have the like do you meet a
just a basic hurdle for technical
competence and like demonstrated ability
to learn things? And do you are you
effective at causing the world to look
like you wish it were? Like how how does
your life look or not like whatever
ambitions you had? And like do you have
specific ambitions for your life? And so
this we can distribute over the entire
company and then half of those tended to
go to homework. Um ideally we'd be using
entirely AI resistant homeworks now. So,
our favorite types of homeworks are
things that um don't saturate, have a
very high ceiling, and are naturally
scorable to two or three numbers that we
can put on a plot so that when we get
responses to homeworks, we can just plot
them all and it's very obvious when
someone has really beaten the PTO
frontier and we otherwise don't care
whatever AI models they use like that
can make you better. um in cases where
that's not possible uh for homework
right now we've we're doing increasing
number of technical phone calls or pra
on-site practical tests but ideally we
would have an AI resistant take-home uh
for each of these had a really
interesting take on the AI resistant
homework where they've had a couple
tasks where there's like it's like uh
the GPU kernel optimization like what is
the minimum number of cycles you can get
it down to and this is naturally
adjusting like the hurdle for a while
was I think it was sonnet's performance
if you could beat that then you could
get an interview I think that there's a
bunch of ways to construct a resistant
homeworks.
And then by the time you get to the
interview, it is important that you have
a from there reasonably high like at
least 25% conversion to an offer because
otherwise it is just you're going to
waste too much of your time doing
on-sites for employees that don't
convert. You can't get that down. Um,
and so this is there's four steps to
this. Initial voting, the phone screen,
homework, and a full interview. And this
is as far as like from what my
experience,
this is the minimum set of information
that we need to make a like a full
decision. And I don't think that there's
a a more efficient way to elicit this.
Like I don't think there's a smaller
number of steps that we could use. So
this has become our process. So you're
hiring people, they're coming into work,
they're starting, you're incurring
payroll. Um, but how do you know that
you're good at this? Like eventually
you'll get feedback from the market on
how good you are at hiring because the
company will work or it won't. Like your
team will be capable of accomplishing
the stuff that you've set out and
they'll help you course correct through
that. But this is a very very long
feedback and it's very poorly behaved
loss function. Um and so it's kind of
your job as management to design
synthetic gradients that allow you to
find out earlier and along the way how
recruiting is going and if you need a
course correction.
A conventional answer to this is the 360
review process. So once a year you send
out a lot of forms, you gather up a
bunch of feedback uh around each
employee, you set up a bunch of meetings
with HR and with the various managers
and you can do the conventional
performance review cycle. Um which based
on my experience is like this is a a
very disruptive process that doesn't
tend to surface issues that you don't
already know about but haven't acted on
because you knew that thing was there.
But firing people is hard and so pe like
people drag their feet on it and this
this is kind of reinforcing things you
already knew and it only happens once a
year. Um maybe twice a year if you split
up the company into into cohorts. But I
mean I think really what would be nice
to have is a signal that gives you this
kind of natural feedback from across the
company about who's good and who isn't
and what's working and what's not in a
way that is largely unbiased and is more
continuous. Imagine if you could get
feedback kind of every few weeks on
where there are issues and where things
are going well. And so the process that
I had developed um which I've now used
for the last really six or seven years
is every few like every couple weeks
every four to six weeks it's not that
often people around the company get
pinged with a question through the
software through Helix and it's there's
a form but really there's only one
question that really matters which is
knowing how this person turned out would
you vote again today for their hire?
It's the same questions we use on the
initial voting. Um, and so you'll get a
prompt to say like this person you work
with like how would you vote for their
hire today? And then what we can do is
we construct a graph over the company of
all of the feedback. And so the basic
intuition is that like your vote should
be weighted more highly if everybody
else has rated you highly. And the
astute may notice that this looks a lot
like the original Google algorithm page
rank which is an idea called IGEN vector
centrality where you can create a weight
over the over the graph by looking at
how the graph points together. This is a
little bit different than actually
literally I vector centrality but it's
very similar and so we call this
technique IGEN reviews and I've become
convinced that this is more or less the
right way to do performance reviews.
There's some other tricks that you have
to apply to get this to work really
well. For example, um we apply dropout
where we'll run a thousand iterations
where we'll randomly remove some
percentage of the edges each iteration.
And then when you look at the
distribution of scores that you get out
of that, if you see additional peaks,
for example, this is a clue that there
could be voting clicks that need further
investigation. But as a whole, this is
it distributes the judgment across the
company, updates more or less
continuously with about a month lag, and
gives you just way better insight into
what's going on really around the
company.
So this is and it and it also totally
gets rid of that kind of traumatic super
heavy once a year HR driven performance
view process. Um so the the the point of
this talk is not the spec is not that
you should use this in particular
although you should consider it and if
you're if you actually roll this out at
your company um you can email me and
I'll send you a doc with more specific
tricks on how to actually get this to
work well. But the the real theme of the
talk is that rate of iteration separates
success from failure. And if you can get
a fast iteration loop, that really
overcomes many other things you're going
to run into. And this effect is so
severe. I mean, if you can learn one
thing every week and there's a
competitor that's learning a thing every
month, they will they will never matter.
Um o overwhelmingly if there's you're
looking at different way like two
different approaches to solve a problem.
If there's one that allows you to
compound like in half in a much shorter
amount of time than the other, even if
the other approach has significant um
like redeeming characteristics, you
should really consider going with the
shorter iteration cycle because the
compounding effect is just so dramatic.
And so speed determines success and
failure and speed is determined by
infrastructure. This is driven by really
boring sounding things like how well do
your purchasing and recruiting and
spending processes work. This is as
important as how well do you understand
understand the object level technical
content of the thing that you're
building. I see companies founded by
just like stellar pedigree scientists
and engineers all the time that die on
the vine because this execution is tough
to follow through and your job is to
organize. It's like it's it's uncommon
that these deep tech companies that fail
because the technology doesn't work.
They fail because once you end up with
this organization of hundreds of people
and thousand hundreds of thousands of
square feet of physical infrastructure,
you haven't built the systems to manage
that. becomes unwieldy and then you
can't make like you can't connect
strategy to execution.
Um so we we heavily lean towards things
that have shorter iteration cycles um
kind of etc like all else equal. Um but
that doesn't that's not a blanket rule
like there are no blanket rules in
startups. You're looking at each new
fact pattern that comes in as its own as
its own unique thing and then making
decisions that make sense to you. And
one of the harder lessons as a startup
founder, one of the harder things I
think to to really deal with is the fact
that you cannot delegate your judgment.
As as the CEO, you must always make
decisions that make sense to you, no
matter how much momentum or inertia
alternatives seem to have. Um, so in
school, if you're let's say there's like
somebody sitting next to you and you
cheat on the test by looking over at
them, you'll your grade will like all
else equal, your grade will be dragged
towards the average of the class. That
is not good enough to succeed in
startups. you have to do things that
like are at the long tail that you're
you the successful companies are the
exceptions by becoming an average that
is not good enough. And so um in order
to succeed your judgment has to be
differentiatedly good. Now the reality
might be that you don't know if your
judgment is good yet. And so um one way
or another you will have to find out and
that means making decisions that make
sense to you even when you are totally
alone in that realization.
um that is the only way to get to to the
really big outcomes. Now, it's not that
often that everyone else will think one
thing and you'll be like, "You're all
totally wrong." But it is a really eerie
feeling like you'll get to a point four
or five years into the company when
there's hundreds of millions of dollars
on the line and there's some really high
stakes decision and only you can make it
and then you will look around for advice
because like in the beginning you'll get
lots of like there's a bunch of things
that are easily advised or easily
figured out but you'll get to a key
point years in and you'll look for
advice and there is nobody to ask and at
that point you must have a really good
sense of the limits and boundaries of
your judgment. That is a very eerie
feeling and you have to be able to
commit to it regardless. Now, the good
news is that in my experience, it's very
difficult to actually get stuck. Um, you
can get yourself into trouble and the
action space is always larger than it
appears. Um, you can kind of no matter
what happens, there's usually like when
you get like I think it's very easy to
try and anticipate all kinds of problems
that you'll never actually run into. Um,
and then you go and do it and then you
get to a point where the system like you
run into some real limitation. There's
always a hundred ideas about how to make
it better. This is sometimes phrased as
action produces information. Um, this
idea is is I think much deeper than it
sounds. Like the so in physics there's
this there's this quantity called
action. And so if I throw a ball and it
follows a ballist like a like a
parabolic trajectory that trajectory is
totally set like when it leaves my hand
unless it gets blown by wind some other
like action is exerted on it. It will
follow this ballistic trajectory which
is in this sense like kind of an
information minimizing trajectory. I can
say it just followed it was ballistic
that totally determines it. If it
something else happens you had to spend
some energy time to cause that cause
that to happen. And so when whenever you
exert like action into the universe that
creates information like in a like in a
very fundamental sense and whenever you
get stuck like you have to you have to
start like injecting action producing
entropy. Um and this is this produces
some fairly counterintuitive effects.
Like I've seen situations where the
company is stuck in a deep local minimum
and there's someone who is great in many
ways but it's just the wrong fit for
what that company needs at the time and
removing them even though they
individually are very strong unblocks
the company and allows it to kind of
enter a new phase. Um when you're when
you get stuck you have to start doing
things. And so all the thing underneath
the the object level content of what the
product you are building is you've got
this you have all these support systems
kind of the company like how the company
does purchasing and accounting and
recruiting and performance reviews and
budgeting and safety and quality is the
operating system of the company and that
has a huge impact
on how far you can take it. So
speed is determined by infrastructure.
Speed determines success and failure.
You need to put more thought into these
into getting these foundations right. If
you do them right at the beginning,
everything else is much easier. If you
get them wrong, you'll end up like
spending $5 million a month and feel
like you have very little control over
it. Um and then you're forced into into
coarser levers and harder decisions. Um
thank you for coming to my TED talk.
>> [applause]
>> Okay.
Do you have advice for people trying to
choose between industry and academia,
starting a company now versus getting a
PhD first?
So, it really it depends on specifically
what you're doing. If
if your field only exists in basic
research, then getting a PhD might be
very reasonable. Um
the
so when things really start to work um
like if
20 years ago the best computer
scientists were at CMU and Harvard and
50 years ago the best rock like if you
wanted to work on rocket engines you
were at NASA you were at a university
you're at University of Maryland or
somewhere and now they're at now the
best computer scientists are at Google
and Apple and um and OpenAI And the best
rocket scientists are at SpaceX and Blue
Origin and others. So when a field
really starts to work, industry can just
marshall such larger levels of resources
and can just move so much faster. Um,
and so I think a question has been why
has academia stayed so relevant in the
life sciences. And it's just the reality
is that it doesn't work that well for
most things. Like humans just aren't
that good at drug discovery. And so if
your if your field is really only in
academia, then it can make total sense
to get a PhD. But
um
I think you know a lot of
it is uncommon that startups don't get
the technology to work. It is more
common that they can't organize the
human organizations to accomplish their
goals and learning that is also a skill
set. The only way to learn it. I think
it's an oral tradition. You have to do
it. And so if the choice is working at a
really high performing company adjacent
to where you want to be versus getting a
PhD, I'd probably recommend the company.
But it's not an absolute rule and it
really depends on the field.
what counts as evidence of exceptional
ability to you? Um, anything that
concretely you can put your finger on
that separates that person from their
high school class. Um, like what is you
like if you have your average high
school student? We just like want some
concrete fact that is that
um
I mean ideally the the best evidence of
exceptional ability is are winning at
legible competitive games. So this could
be being a like a chess grandmaster. It
could be winning design, build, fly or
formula SAE competitions. Um there's a
bunch of Silicon Valley deep tech
companies that are basically built out
of Formula SAE winners from college. Um
people that just spent their college
experience building things and racing
them and finding out. I think you have
to have that type of competitive
feedback. It is tough to know if you're
exceptional um without having some
legible competitive game.
How do we hire engineers now? Do we
still use leak code or do we have better
ways? If we allow AI use, how do you
understand the skills of the applicant?
Um, so we've never I don't think we've
ever really used leak code. Maybe some
other people on the team do it in
secret, but I've never asked it. Um,
so software
in particular,
it the rewards to horsepower are so
great that it really is just it's a
field that attracts really smart people
because it gives you this very rapid
feedback. Like if you think about like
there's a lot of really smart people in
biology, but when you have a biological
idea, it can take you many months to
find out if it's a good one. In
software, if you have an idea, you can
often build it in a couple hours or you
can get feedback within days. And so it
has this really addictive feedback loop
kind of like high frequency trading that
just draws in really smart people. Um
and uh and so we look for kind of over
your life what signals do we have that
you have done something interesting like
it's it's uncommon for someone to get
into their mid20s without having without
there being some thing in their
background that they went out and sought
out and did. Um
but it can but it this is like such an
open-ended criteria. Um it can really be
anything. The we don't we increasingly
more directly to the question we
increasingly don't directly evaluate
programming. We evaluate try to evaluate
thinking. So this is design questions
like if we give you a domain how do you
break it down? Can you understand the
decomposition of the problem clearly? Um
it's really measures of like can you
think clearly rather than can you write
code?
What did you take away from your
experience at Neurolink?
So the question of like should you go
get a PhD? I don't have a PhD. I spent
five years running a company for my CEO
at Neurolink. Um that was I mean there's
one of the biggest lessons I think is
that there are few really generic
there's no generic algorithm for how to
succeed at a startup. There's no like
set of like five bullet points that can
be conveyed that if you just like turn
the crank your company will be
successful. It is a long series of
judgment calls. And so the most
important thing is that those filters
are tuned really well. And so the I
think the most one of the most valuable
things for me at Neurolink was I was
working with someone who has empirically
excellent judgment. Like we could get
into trouble together and there'd be all
like something would happen and there'd
be two possible solutions that would
make sense and I'd go to him and say
like is it option A or is it option B?
you'd look at and be like, "Oh, it's
definitely option B. The problem would
never recur." And having been in those
situations where I was trying to make
these bets kind of with stakes attached,
looking forward in time, not getting
feedback until later with that advice
was incredibly useful for train for
fitting those filters. And I don't know
that there was really a shortcut. And I
think that just hearing the stories when
you're not there making the like really
thinking about it because there are real
stakes and then getting that feedback um
that that is an essential part of the
education of an entrepreneur that I
think many people underrate. I think it
is really worth working for a a company
that has an excellent culture that you
respect before jumping right into your
own into your own startup. It is
relatively uncommon that startup
cultures get rediscovered entirely from
first principles. Usually they're passed
down as as again oral traditions because
there's a founding team that worked at
another company which worked at another
company and so they inherited it or in
some cases where there's really a
breakout where there's just some market
dislocation that really enables a team
kind of out of nowhere to build it.
They'll often get it from the VCs but
it's working with the people that have
that judgment so that you can get that
like you can get that reinforcement
learning as it's long series of facts is
really important. Um,
could BCIs or neural interfaces help us
figure out what consciousness actually
is? How? Absolutely. Um, so
if the end of the artificial
intelligence quest is super intelligent
machines, um, I think the end of the BCI
quest is conscious machines. Um, there
the brain is composed of ordinary matter
arranged according to the rules of
chemistry, only things found on the
periodic table. It seems tough to
believe that there's like some new
physics going on in there. And so
there's we we're looking for some
mapping between the substrate activity
and the phenomenal content. Now, if we
had a tech if we had a magical BCI that
allowed me to see the instant state of
every neuron in the brain and and drive
them, I think we'd figure out
consciousness pretty fast. I don't think
I think this is a practical problem, not
a philosophical problem. And uh but to
prove it but first of all that practical
problem is real and we'll have to do the
stuff in humans and to prove any of this
we'll have to do it in humans. I think
the it is possible that uh you could use
a BCI to prove it. We have some ideas
about how to do those experiments but
they are um
they're still a few some number of years
off right that things going into humans
now are are not designed to to study
consciousness but I do think that that
is further down this path.
What should I study to contribute to
BCIS?
The
[snorts]
this really depends on your background.
Um there neural interfaces are a very
interdicciplinary problem. It uses
everything from uh stem cell biology to
materials and micr fabrication to um to
software to animal behavior to surgery.
Um so there are many different entry
points in it. Um one of the things that
we found is that it's better to have a
smaller team that can fit more of the
problem in their heads and then compress
it together. Um, contrast this to how
academia usually handles
interdisciplinary problems where they'll
have an interdisiplinary center that
pulls in very deep verticalized experts
who are kind of meet at the center. And
the problem is that they're all speaking
different languages. And so it's often
hard to really like even when they can
communicate, typically you end up
shipping the interfaces of those
departments. Whereas for us, if we can
kind of hold the problem in the head of
a smaller number of people, we can shift
around where the bottlenecks are.
Specific example of this is our protein
engineering group has been able to
develop much more sensitive like much
better proteins for some things that we
need to do which has allowed us to relax
some electronics requirements. So if we
have uh so specifically we have proteins
called opsins that allow us to make
neurons light sensitive so that if we
shine light on them we can fire a
neuron. Um the problem was that you
needed to hit a neuron with a lot of
light to fire it which means that you
can't have that many light light sources
because it gets too hot. So, we've been
able to make the protein more sensitive,
which means that we can have more LEDs
because each one can be dimmer. And so,
we can we've turned this electronics
problem into a biology problem that
allowed us to relax those constraints.
You don't get that as much when you have
these interdisiplinary centers where
there's like one group focused on one
thing, there's another group focused on
another thing. Um, and so I would say
being being able to have a broader
perspective of more of the problem is
really valuable. And then just have like
really the as deep and clear an
understanding of this as of the system
as you can get. I think there's no
substitute for being hands-on. It
doesn't really matter like the you want
some hard skill to get you in the door.
Software, electric, electronics,
mechanical, materials, something and
then from there I would try to learn as
much of it as you can. Um
what doesn't AI replace in scientific
research?
Where are humans still necessary if
anywhere? [snorts]
Um,
we we still definitely need humans. Um,
and in scientific research in
particular, I mean, it's tough to
predict like AI is clearly advancing
very rapidly. I do think that you need
to think about how to have your company
be AI native in the sense that every
like you want you want to gather all of
the context all the stuff happening in
your company and be able to make that
available efficiently to agents because
those are clearly a big part of the
future. So for us in Helix really
everything goes in there and one of the
reasons that we did that was because not
just is it powerful to have everything
in one database to link together
purchasing to quality to batch records
and manufacturing so that we can trace
stuff more efficiently but also so that
we could give it all to to agents. Um
and so we found them to be a a
multiplier for the team not a
replacement. Um
the three biggest areas that AI has had
an impact for us so far are um like well
first of all coding I mean that's like
now basically all this like I don't I've
written a lot of code in my life I don't
think I've looked at the source very
much the last six months um that is
getting really good um regulations. So
this is
so if you're doing anything really
interesting, you're going to end up
regulated and then you'll probably end
up dealing with these things called
quality systems. And so a quality system
I think triggers a lot of scar tissue
for people because it's it's just the
the quintessential heavy bureaucracy.
Slow everything down. But the idea of
quality itself is actually not a
problem. The problem is that humans are
bad at reading and interpreting these
things. And so when we make a product,
one of the things we have to do is
identify all of the standards that might
apply. And there's standards for
everything. There's standards for like
how the lithium-ion batteries plug into
a PCB. There's standards for electrical
insulation of the boards. There's
standards for shipping label like the at
some point you'll have to take your
shipping packaging, print a label on it,
and put it in a vibe box and show that
the the corners of the label don't curl
in a way that might cause it to detach.
And so we you hire regulatory experts to
go find all of the standards that might
apply, make a list of them, and then
have a spreadsheet which is like all of
the evidence that you comply with all of
the standards. So you have this this um
this thing can take many many months.
Historically AI has totally transformed
it. I mean we can very quickly look up
all the standards. We can very quickly
generate the evidence tables. And I
think that um to the degree that there's
kind of over I mean there is we
definitely need to deregulate some
things but I think that the combination
of AI and regulation is is a better fit
than people think and you can use it to
smooth a lot of stuff. Um where the
regulations are written in blood and
largely good ideas it's just hard for
humans to do it.
Um,
why build your own infrastructure
platforms rather than just buying them?
I mean, you can't really buy these
things. There's no there are ERP systems
out there, but there's no company that
like loves their ERP system. Like, I
don't know there's anyone who's really
like, I want to spend more time in
Netswuite. Um, and
on the contrary, there are a bunch of
examples now of companies that grow up
around a piece of software that's really
fit just for them. like YC famously has
a lot of internal software that I think
really makes YC work. Um Facebook also
very famously invested heavily in
internal tools and now has um like I
think gets a lot of efficiency from
that. Um SpaceX and Tesla internally
have a pretty giant piece of software
called Warp Speed that runs a lot of
their manufacturing and R&D processes.
And so when one company grows up around
like a harness fit to it, it can be very
powerful. It is powerful in a way that
the software that you can buy isn't. Um,
but this requires you to really look
into the future because certainly,
especially at the seed stage, this is
not the thing that you would think you
should be focusing on and historically
it has not been. I think this is a thing
that has changed with agents. The fact
that you can vibe code this now makes it
a reasonable thing to think about.
Historically software has been so
expensive, you would have had to buy it
and that's what everybody did for a long
time. That was I think a worse world and
that world has changed and so now there
are better options available. But like I
said, so like we previously had used a
we used greenhouse. Um greenhouse
required us to have a small number of
people as a bottleneck at that at that
first funnel stage. Um replacing that
with software. We we were able to
explore voting mechanisms and fairly
detailed voting mechanisms that can that
can make smart inferences about who
would know about it know about an
applicant. Things that you can't really
do with the commercial software. And so
for a lot of these processes, you should
think about how you want it to work for
you. the
it it matter these are human
organizations these human processes that
have to be staffed and if they aren't
done routinely will atrophy and there's
things that make sense for different
teams and founders in the way they view
the world and think about it it really
is all very different and but if you
build a thing uh for that works for you
and then you like bake that into the
company so it like when you put
something there it stays there it can be
very very useful
what changes should we expect in the
as BCIs start to work and get widely
adopted, do intelligence differences no
longer matter.
[snorts]
So there's this meme that BCI is an
artificial intelligence adjacent story
and there's some of that like eventually
like if AI is building super intelligent
machines and BCI labs are building
conscious machines and we're building
brain-to-brain connections so that the
boundaries between those things become
less meaningful like at some point you
want a super intelligent conscious
machine that we can participate in. But
that actually feels further away to me.
I think in the near term BCI is really a
longevity story. And I view longevity as
really just healthcare. I mean just
biotech. It's just that it hasn't like I
think it is not right to say that the
pharma companies or any of these these
like past healthcare companies are not
interested in cures. I think that that
is what all of them want. It's just that
that's been beyond our capabilities. And
in neural engineering and people hear
BCI think they think of motor decoding
like I put some electrodes in motor
cortex and now they can control it like
a video game. I think neural engineering
is much broader than that. We include
our retinal prosthesis in that. We
include cocar implants in that. Um and
this this I think is a contrarian take
on all of healthcare. It gives you these
effect sizes that you just don't really
see in medicine. Like if you have a
patient on on a dopamineergic drug for
Parkinson's that works for some period
of time, but it's a it's a relatively
small effect after a little while. You
turn on a deep brain stimulator and a
patient goes from not being able to hold
a cup of water to being able to write
cursive in like 10 seconds. You turn on
like if you want to talk about strong
patient testimonials, you should see a
newborn having their coar implant turned
on. Like these are just when you deal
directly with the brain as a computer,
not only do you not have to solve some
of these really hard biology problems
that are just beyond humanity's
capabilities, but you get these results
very like pretty readily that again are
just uh like you can get an engineering
gradient, you can get them more reliably
and they're just large effects. And so I
see this as as a way to to extend and
improve the life of of like of
everybody. I mean there's
the the brain is the thing that makes
you you. It's the only thing that in
principle you can't transplant. You can
get a new heart or a new liver. You
cannot even in principle get a new
brain. And the brain is usually not the
thing that fails. And so if you can deal
with the brain directly, um I think this
is going to
this is more of a of a radical longevity
story than it is an AI one for the
moment. Although all of these things
will come together um over some period
of time
for your IEN review performance system.
How do you prevent employees from
colluding on their votes or downvoting
somebody on purpose? So, so as I
mentioned, there are some tricks. So,
for like for example, applying uh marov
chain Monte Carlo dropout allows us to
detect things like voting clicks because
now instead of seeing one peak, you'll
see two peaks. That is a a clue to look
in look into that. Um it's I mean it's
designed to um be tolerant of these
things. I think it is really fairly
transparent. It's also not our only
signal. It's one of several. Um the uh
if anybody's interested in this um send
me an email and I will share a document
with with the specific tricks but I want
to understand a little more about how
you were going to deploy it first. Some
of this is trade craft
when you're building something as long
horizon as Neurotch. How do you figure
out how much runway you actually need to
keep the company alive and how do you
get investors to fund that much?
So sometimes I mean you you often see
founders like especially more
experienced ones pitching VCs for what
they think is reasonable to ask for
rather than what they need to run the
experiment. You're raising some amount
of money to go find out some answer. The
answer to that might be no. the
investors understand this like depending
on what business you're in, but you have
to actually run the experiment. And one
of the the things um like
there are definitely some ideas that are
worth funding with $50 million or zero
dollars, but not $5 million. Um you
won't run the experiment. It'll be
really frustrating experience. You'll
get an ambiguous outcome. And so my
first piece of advice is like you should
figure out what you think it's going to
take to actually run the experiment,
which is not the whole company. That is
what is your next value inflection. You
should have, no matter how ambitious and
open-ended of your plan is, you should
have some sense of like what is your
next key value inflection point. What
are the experiments that need to go into
that? Um, price that out and then raise
twice the money. Um, so I would I mean
there's some amount of waste. I think if
you can get waste down to 20 or 30%,
that's pretty good. Um, and
anyway, the advice is figure out what it
costs to actually run the experiment.
raise twice that and like raise raise
that or not. Um beyond that it's the uh
you'll always discover new things.
There's usually some path through the
mass. Um but you're also like when you
start the company you're not going to
get a guarantee of like that you won't
be on a bridge to nowhere or that it
will work on the funding that you have.
Like you're going to have to get in
there and figure it out halfway through.
Um I think that people should push for
profitability sooner than they often
think that they need to. Um, for us, I
mean, even though we are seen as this, I
think like very open-ended deep tech
company with a very long roadmap, which
is true, we are also relent relentlessly
focused on revenue at this point. Um, we
are trying to get to sustainability. It
feels like I mean, you kind of the
company is kind of constantly dying
slowly of this money cancer that we can
beat into remission every couple years
with the fundraising, but then it like
eventually comes back. And I like want
that feeling to be over. And so you you
no matter like how big of a problem or
big of a vision it feels, you do need to
think about how do you get to revenue so
that not just you can do it forever, but
then you'll be valued on your long-term
road map, not not valued on your
probability of dying. And it really
opens up an another set of investors
that wouldn't um that wouldn't be
relevant otherwise.
What is the best piece of advice you've
received?
Um,
I don't know. I've acquired way too much
brain damage over the last 20 years to
have a memory capable of picking that
out. Um
it
I mean I think if other than
speed being the basis of success and
infrastructure determines your speed um
it is it is important to appreciate that
there like are no general principles. I
think people are looking for shortcuts.
People are looking for um like a a pathy
set of instructions that are like oh I
figured it out and that doesn't exist.
Like every one of these things is
different. When you get to that moment
in history, you're doing something new.
And I mean, we can take we can reflect
for a second on how crazy it is that all
that this is possible. Like for the vast
majority of human history, if you were a
smart 20-year-old that like had an idea
to like make your society better and you
raised this to the people with capital,
the reaction was like you should pay
attention to the harvest. The fact that
like it is not widely available. It's
not universally available, but it's not
like widely available that if you're a
really smart 20-year-old, you can come
to San Francisco and make the case and
if it's an interesting idea, you'll get
millions of dollars to find out. Like
this is not the case for most of the
world today and it's certainly not the
case for most of history anywhere. And
um that but like that shouldn't feel
normal like that that this is given to
push the frontier out. And when you're
on the frontier, they're like you're
figuring it out as you go. You like that
is that is the job. And so I would try
to rely less on things that feel like
startup advice and more on how good is
your judgment, how well is that refined
in your domain and remembering that is
you have to think for yourself.
What are some of the hardest remaining
engineering challenges involved in
getting BCIs to work?
So in BCIS we often feel very limited by
power and thermal constraints on the
implants. Um, and so this creates a
strong pressure to implant as little as
possible and do the rest uh off the
body. You can't pass a wire through the
skin because the skin is a very
important immune barrier. And if you and
the skin won't like fully heal around it
like if you have any connector through
the scalp, you're constantly at risk of
a bacteria crawling down that and into
the brain and then the patient's going
to have a really bad time. And so you
really have to be able to close the
skin. That requires you to have
implanted like a radio or transceiver of
some sort and getting the power on that
down. like there's there's a frontier at
low power electronics which is really
important more as I mentioned earlier a
lot of this is now becoming increasingly
biology as our biological engineering
capabilities increase um but then on
those implants ironically one of the the
harder kind of more open problems is
what we call packaging um our colleagues
in Europe call it tropicalization
um this is the uh your ability to keep
your device in and the body out of an
implant that that you put in the body so
there are no truly passive surfaces
anywhere in the body, even bone is
constantly getting remolded. And so if I
put a device in, it's going to be it's
going to be getting attacked by the body
and it's not regenerating itself. And so
you need a material that is going to
survive that for an extended period of
time. The very like the classic example
of this is the laser welded titanium
can, which like if you've seen like a
pacemaker or deep brain stimulator,
they've got this big titanium box.
Obviously can't we can't put a big
titanium box in the eye. Um,
interestingly, one of the the earlier
retinal prostheses before before us, uh,
10 years ago was a device that was a
that did have a titanium box that they
attached to the eyeball. So, they had a
it was a four and a half hour surgery.
They had a little belt that went around
the eyeball with a little titanium box
on the side of the eye with a battery
and a little PCB. Like, this didn't
work. This was not good enough. Um, they
needed to get rid of that somehow. Um in
our case we've solved this with the with
the laser projection trick where we
power it wirelessly but um having type
this next generation packaging some type
of conformal coating that we can use to
protect the implant that is not degraded
by the body is also not harmful to the
body and is is resistant to all the
thing like all of the ways the body will
try and kill it. um th that material
science is a very open-ended field and
if you're interested in material science
that is a thing that uh we need progress
in.
How did you approach interacting with
the medical field to build your retinal
implant?
Um
[snorts] the
I mean business is just like a fancy
word for talking to people and doing
things like you send you talk to them
like you send them emails. I mean this
is the uh
so for our retinal implant it was
originally invented uh by a professor at
Stanford almost 15 years ago I think um
it was licensed to a European company
that we were tracking um let me back up
a second. So when we started the company
uh I I came from Neurolink four of my
five co-founders came from Neurolink.
uh kind of took a look around the world
in early 2021 and asked like what is the
most valuable thing that we can do that
would be likely to work in the near
future that would may have a big impact
to patients and allow us to be the
foundation for a um the type of scalable
medical device company that we wanted to
build. And we came to the conclusion
that that restoring vision to the blind
by stimulating the retina was was the
thing in that there's you kind of have a
choice of two types of cells in the
retina that you can stimulate these
things called bipolar cells or the optic
nerve. And you could do that
electrically or you could do that
optically. We explored all four
quadrants of that. We developed
internally a state-of-the-art gene
therapy that optically stimulated one of
those cells. And we identified this this
French company as being the
state-of-the-art in electrical
stimulation. And so we I mean it's a
small community. You can meet people,
you can talk to them. Um we uh it
eventually made sense for us to acquire
them. We ended up with the license, the
technology, and we and we work with
surgeons and doctors all the time. Um
you uh like if there's a new surgery
that you want to figure out, I mean
typically this makes this is best going
through networks so that people are more
likely to respond to your email, but we
cold email surgeons all the time saying
like, "Hey, we have a weird surgery to
develop. Do you want to be a
consultant?" and people reply
um there before I get to the next
question there there is a real cultural
thing here um so in my time hanging out
around the periphery of SpaceX I
observed that like at least circa seven
or eight years ago probably like 20% of
that company is what you might
characterize as committed Martian
colonists and 80% % are serious
engineers. I think that those people are
lunatics and they just want to work on
the highest performance methodox engines
in the world. And you need both of those
cultures to be really successful long
term. And that's uh especially tricky in
in in medicine, right? Because that's a
very very conservative, arguably very
authoritarian culture for the most part.
And similarly at at our company we have
I'd say 30%
I mean it's an overtly transhumanist
mission and then 70%
like serious clinicians and scientists
and researchers and people who think
that those guys are crazy but we're
going to build some really valuable uh
medical devices for critical unmet needs
in the process. I think one of the
things that makes science the company
very special is that it has both of
those cultures and is able to integrate
them and we're able to simultaneously do
some really cool research that I think
is really at the edge of the Overton
window while simultaneously running
clinical trials in six countries now
with an approved medical device in
Europe and clinical trial results in the
New England Journal of Medicine. You
have to be able to navigate both of
those things I think to really reshape
the future.
Has biotech gotten easier to break into
for earlier stage founders?
Um,
biotech remains capital intensive. Um,
and so that is like I don't know that
I'd recommend biotech if you have a
choice of other stuff to do. I think for
me this was I got like
I realized almost 30 years ago that if
you could engineer like if you could
alter the brain you could alter reality.
like this was one of the biggest
missions of of the next 30 40 years was
was building these things. And so for
me, I think it's like every now and then
I think that my life would be way easier
if I just gone into AI instead of ECI.
Um but somebody has to do it. And I
think it's important to
like biotech is hard. It's like it's a
it is a much harder path than many other
things that you can do. But when you're
successful, it it has an impact on like
the really what you see elsewhere. Um
the
like I think increasingly there's I mean
it was Paul Graham that wrote a long
time ago that like you get vibes in
different cities and like the vibe in
Cambridge, Massachusetts is you should
be smarter or the vibe in New York is
you should be wealthier. The vibe in San
Francisco is you should be more
powerful. Especially with the rise of
things like artificial intelligence, I
think people realize that this isn't
just about money. And I think for many
the of the most effective startup
founders, it's not about it's not about
the money. It's about changing like
there's some way in which you want the
world to be different. And it just turns
out that for that project, the
for-profit company is an incredibly
powerful way to marshall the resources
required to cause the world to be
different in that way. And this is this
is not about money. This is about power.
And there are many different types of
power. There's economic power. There's
military power. But the power to heal
the sick is is like a very dramatic one.
And when you get that, not only is that
um is that a real force to reshape the
world, it's one that can be shared very
readily. Like you can't share military
power, economic power, but you can share
the power um of restoring sight to the
blind or of giving life to the cancer
patient. And I think that the world is
getting more complicated and there's
there's like there's big impacts of all
the things that are being worked on by
the people in this room. And biotech is
is hard. It's very capital intensive.
It's a long road. when you start a
company in this space, you're committing
to a decade of your life that you will
never get back no matter how it turns
out. Um, but
the results of that when it works, um,
the impact that this has on patients and
their families is really unlike really
any other sector.
So the last question,
what's a popular belief in tech that you
think is wrong? And I don't even know
what the popular beliefs in tech are
now. Well, I mean, okay, even the whole
basis of building Helix is contrarian.
Like, I think that if you raise a series
A and then you tell your investors that
you're going to vibe code a purchasing
system, I think that any reasonable
board is going to like ask you what
you're thinking. Um, and that um
we were able to do that because I never
got those questions because we don't
because I control the company. But
that's one narrow example, I guess.
All right.
Thank you.
>> [cheering]