Title: Legendary Consumer VC Predicts The Future Of AI Products
Video ID: xFQ5mIJdxhA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xFQ5mIJdxhA
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-06-27T14:01:44Z
Duration: PT35M47S
Views: 102540
Likes: 1655
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 977

Description:
Kirsten Green, founder of Forerunner Ventures, has backed some of the most iconic consumer brands of the past two decades — from Warby Parker to Chime to Dollar Shave Club. In this conversation, she shares how great products (not marketing tricks) still win, why AI is unlocking a new kind of emotional relationship between consumers and technology, and what founders can learn from the messy creative stage we're in right now. She also breaks down how shifts in distribution, wellness, and digital b

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

It's almost the first question we get
asked from every new founder that we
work with, which is like, tell me how
so- and so did this for marketing or
what happened here. Yeah. And I always
kind of have to preface and say, I've
got good news and bad news for you,
which is you've got to do everything.
Why do they need your product? Why are
they going to come back to your product?
Why are they going to add another new
thing into their already crowded lives?
If you have to like strip everything
away, you don't have extra money or
resources to do other things. Like, nail
your product.
[Music]
Welcome to another episode of the main
function. Today I have Kirsten Green,
the co-founder and managing partner of
4Erunner Ventures. She's a legendary
investor who's done all of the great
consumer startups over the last 15 20
years really. So it's really a pleasure
to have you here. to name a few, Chime,
Fair, Hims and Hers, Warby Parker, and
Dollar Shave Club. Kirsten, thanks for
joining us. Thanks, Gary. It's a
pleasure to be here. Prior to jumping on
here, we were talking about we want to
see a lot more consumer AI. We're in the
middle of an AI boom. What is the shape
of that? Like, what do you think's going
to happen? Why hasn't it happened, you
know, quite yet? I think that it's
inevitable and I think that it's
starting to happen.
It makes sense that it's on the horizon.
given that first you have to have the
infrastructure built, first you have to
have the technology formed and then in
business is typically and understandably
the first kind of call to action. It
really runs off of competition. So
someone starts a business as an
outsider. An incumbent sees that
someone's coming for part of their
business, they respond and competition
goes from there. And on the consumer
side, of course, you have competition
once you have a marketplace built. But
to get things started, you really have
to deliver something like outstanding
for the consumer. It has to be something
that's meeting a need in a new way. And
you have to draw them in and it has to
make it their choice. So, it takes a
little more, I think, nuance and a
little more um warm-up time to get
people to come around to that. One thing
I would say about AI in particular is
that I don't know that we've ever seen
something so readily adopted by
consumers. I think the consumers are
voting overwhelmingly that they're here
for the advancements they're seeing in
technology. You know, you just look at
the chat GPT numbers and it's like
really astounding how many hundreds of
millions of people are logging on daily
there. Yeah, I think maybe that's the uh
best example of the fastest consumer
launch maybe in the history of consumer
launches without a doubt probably right.
Yeah, it's astonishing. And then uh you
know the funniest story about that is
you know if you spend time with Evan
Morawa the original PM for that when
they launched it was uh it was a slog.
It wasn't that easy to actually push it
out into the world like a lot of people.
Haven't you learned after this nothing
is really that easy. That's right. You
know, the trick is making it look easy,
but it's not, you know. That's right.
Maybe that's one of the reasons why
we're so excited. I mean, if Opening Eye
can come out the gate with, you know,
just this insane hockey stick, um, you
know, where there's smoke, usually
there's fire, there will be other new
capabilities. I mean, I think, you know,
first of all, I think it showed us, like
we were just referencing, that people
are really here for it. And part of it
is is that it's relatable. It's actually
even more natural to go online and ask a
question than it is to just search a
keyword. And so this novelty, which it
was a novelty, to come online and be
able to start having a conversation with
technology in a way you hadn't before,
is something we all do every day in our
daily lives. So it was taking a behavior
that is fundamental and now making it
possible online. And I think that's, you
know, one of the reasons why it's been
such a quick uptick from the consumer. I
think one of the reasons it's so
exciting for business and for
entrepreneurs is that this is really a
platform shift. This is more than just
the advancements of technology. I think
it sets like a whole new paradigm for
what's possible. The way I kind of like
simply think about it is is that for the
last two cycles, let's call it the
internet and mobile. We've moved from
outcomes and attention into an area of
relationships and affection. And I think
that's much more dynamic and it's much
more in the ordinary course of people's
lives. So I think the adoption curve is
going to be is going to be really
exciting. I think we just need to get
the founders to start building. Yeah. I
always think about the movie her where
you know it it is actually about a
relationship between you know human and
computer in that respect but it's it
feels much more like a human
relationship. I feel like ChachiPT even
from its initial spectacular launch has
continued to evolve like the new memory
is really powerful. The ability to have
memory is obviously an underpinning to
this idea of an emotional operating
system. And I think that's, you know,
that's the the the next level of
development is to be able to create
context, not just context in the moment
from the data that you're sharing in a
particular conversation or what's been,
you know, stored because you've shared
some piece of it, but that you get that
it gets built over time. The real crazy
unlocks come from the ability to take
that memory that builds over time and
intuitit it forward. I don't know that
we've seen that yet, but it's coming. I
mean, 03 with reasoning is pretty
impressive. Yeah. Well, it's it's
definitely already doing it in the
context of picking facts up over time. I
mean, online while it's researching. I'm
thinking about, you know, you and I sit
down today, we have this conversation, I
go have conversation with three other
people about a similar topic, but maybe
we we push the envelope a little further
on something and then we come back 6
months later and in the context of, you
know, in the journey of 6 months, I've
had many conversations. So have you news
has happened and now the AI is you know
getting in is able to bring all of those
things forward and sort of draw
conclusions or draw ideas or questions
from that body of work. That's something
we do as humans but we haven't had at
all in an interaction on a computer. I
mean, maybe this is a a bit of a debate
right now, like, you know, I personally
almost expect there to be things that
sort of rhyme with pre-ai consumer to
come out and it they'll just somehow be
like
supercharged by AI or by this
relationship that maybe you have or a
memory like is that how you'd view it or
are these things going to look radically
different? I think one of the I think
one of the reasons that maybe it's
taking time for things to brew before we
sort of see something that really wows
it is I do think it begs for people to
go back to first principles and say that
like if I now have the power to build a
relationship through these digital means
um how will the experience be different
like what what's you know what's the way
you start to build that relationship
what's the way you influence that
relationship what's the way you engage
with it I imagine that like every
category in some way can be reinvented
and I don't think you can look at like
what it looks like today and just add AI
onto it, add memory or add a bit of a
deeper connection. We're see we seeing
that now right and I think there's
companies being built in that area that
will probably thrive but I think the
ones that like we'll be talking about
years and years from now are going to
approach it from like an you know a
really new new place a new starting
point. So you've said you know AI will
actually unlock uh new apps by enabling
data to live in a continuous learning
loop you know actual personalization. So
I mean that's sort of actually a part of
the relationship that you and I have,
right? I mean that's what we're talking
about, right? So I do think that data
has long been talked about as a mode of
sorts, but I think it's even more so in
this area where you do have the
continuous learning loop where it's not
just a data point that I share that then
gets reflected back in a specific case.
It's it building over time and the
ability to take those collections of
data points and move a conversation or a
relationship forward just like we do as
humans. But we just haven't done that in
a in a in a digital setting. And imagine
that once you start building that
relationship, not only the power of what
that can unlock in terms of the impact
it might have on whatever context you're
talking about, whether it's some aspect
of your health, some aspect of your
education, some aspect of your financial
planning, some aspect of your social, it
deepens it in a really meaningful way.
The other side of that that gets that
right, I've invested in that
relationship. And I think that you know
that becomes a key to keeping loyalty
with your users and having retention and
the possibility for that is even more
meaningful than things we've seen before
because you've moved from just a
transaction into something that's a
relationship. So back to the idea of
voice which I think is really right. So,
up until recently, almost all my
interactions with my digital interfaces
were typing things on a keyboard. And I
think that even when I'm moving fast,
I'm I'm either writing with a lot of
intention or I'm writing so fast that
I'm putting out sound bites and not
clear thoughts. As soon as you get to
have voice, um I think people take a lot
more liberty with how they talk and you
almost let ideas unfold and you know,
you peel back the onion in doing that.
Now we've got voice that co talks back
to us digitally to prompt a
conversation. And to the extent that all
of that becomes data that gets stored in
the context of memory that gets used in
the way we've been talking about like
that is an incredibly rich place to
pursue that relationship from that we
just that hasn't been possible before.
Yeah. Yeah. So I think between it being
like a more delightful experience, it's
also it's also more rich that can enh.
I don't just paste it and say summarize.
It's I actually paste it and I say
summarize and also pull out the things
that you think I would find really
interesting. It knows that I'm into SF
politics. It knows that I'm into making
sure kids learn algebra. And then
whatever I'm putting in there, like
it'll just pick out different parts of
So, I mean, those are incredible
conversation prompts and and then you
can move from if that's coming back to
you in writing, you can move from there
into a voice conversation about it,
which is huge. That's magical. It's much
more engaging. I I can think of a couple
of times just with myself feeling like I
could pick the phone out of my pocket
and start to have a conversation about
something I wanted to learn about or
with my 15-year-old son. We sat down to
talk about a topic that he was studying
in school that I needed to refresh
myself on. We brought chat GPT into it
and the conversation ended up being much
richer and much longer because we had
support in in uncovering more insights.
You say that we're like sort of in the
messy creative stage of consumer AI.
Talk to me more about that. It's a
really fun place. I think you have to,
you know, as a founder and as an
investor, give yourself sort of a lot
more freedom with how you approach
stuff. It's that time period where we
have new technology to play with and you
just ask like what will, you know, we
just talked about like will the next
iteration of experiences
um build off of the past or will they be
all new? And I think they're going to be
all new. But to get from where they have
been to being something all new, you got
to try so many different things. Until
you have something that resonates with a
large group of people and starts to
become like the new way of doing things,
all of these things are possible. And
the only way to really get to that big
idea is to is to try a bunch of
different things. So it does feel like I
think you've got to shoot your shot. Um
do some learnings with it. You know, the
best teams will iterate from there.
There's a lot of things to be explored
on the path to that. So one of the key
things about consumer often is just
distribution and I mean you have funded
some of the most welldistributed
consumer brands. I mean Chime being able
to create a new bank from nothing. There
must be some lessons from you know those
those experience like building some of
the more enduring uh consumer brands
from nothing. just seeing that it's
almost the first question we get asked
from every new founder that we work with
which is like tell me how so and so did
this for marketing or what happened here
and I always kind of have to preface and
say I've got good news and bad news for
you which is you got to do everything
you know I I think that in terms of just
a channel or a distribution is just
think about you know what is core
fundamental
um value that you are coming to market
with what are the things you want
somebody to associate your product with
the experience you have and then be
thoughtful about how do you articulate
that in every single possible surface
that you can go to, right? And be and be
pretty dedicated and thoughtful about
that. Don't just think you have a
one-sizefits-all message. The one
message resonates from a word of mouth,
one message resonates on TikTok, one res
message resonates on an ad. It's very
different. And so being thoughtful about
that um and doing all of them and having
sort of the mosaic of those things
working together is really what people
have to do which feels like an you know
an inadequate answer cuz somebody wants
a hack. But the root of all of that is
is that you have to build something that
people actually need and that people
actually like enough for those messages
to mean something when they get it. So
it sounds like the best marketing you're
saying is your product is your product
is your product. there's no product, you
know. So, if you if you have to like
strip everything away, you you don't
have extra money or resources to do
other things like nail your product.
Often we run into founders who uh feel
like they built the right product and
then it's just a marketing uh you know
challenge that you know the reason why
people it's not blowing up there's no
product market fit. Well, listen, if you
have a great product and you are
building into something that is a need
is is more than a novelty that is, you
know, important to more than just a few
people, it will get some traction. It
might not be at the scale you wish, you
know, and that's when you get into that
zone of like, okay, what are the
different channels that are available to
me and what are the different tactics?
The first tactic that I I know everybody
in our ecosystem likes to go to that I
think is highly valuable is what sort of
product marketing can you do? like what
about your product um gets better
because you bring other people into the
experience. Maybe there's a network
effect. So, you know, I think that is
always going to be true and the drivers
of those network effects or the way that
those get out into the world might
evolve as like the tech cycles evolve.
You have to also do things that are
authentic and additive to your product.
And don't just do stuff for the sake of
marketing because I I think consumers
are savvy and they see through that. You
can't market products that are bad. So
you So remember the time when everybody
had a friends and family 20% off? That
worked for a little while because it was
new. Like a lot of things work early
because they're new, but for staying
power, it it doesn't work. It doesn't
work for any one company for long
periods of time and it certainly doesn't
work for the 30th entrant into the
market, right? So I do think there's
something to be said for being first,
being early and first and talking about
kind of getting people to start building
in consumer AI. I think there is an
advantage because you have more of a
chance of surprising and delighting
somebody, more of a chance of somebody
saying, "Wow, I didn't know that was
possible." And having that be part of
that like magic moment that creates a
connection once some version of that has
been, you know, demonstrated in a dozen
ways, like it's it it loses some of its
luster. That can help you out of the
gate. That's not enough for a long-term
proposition, but it can be helpful. you
can work it to your advantage. I think
about like, you know, a couple of the
companies you mentioned, Warpie Parker,
Dollar Shave Club, they were
beneficiaries of that. At the time when
Dollar Shave Club launched and the
founder, Michael Dubin, had that
incredible video that was new. YouTube
didn't I mean, YouTube was big, but it
didn't have that many marketing videos
and there weren't that many places to
distribute it because social was still
ramping up. And so, that was a real
novelty. and people were delighted by it
and they shared it and it went around
viral fast. That was never going to make
the company, but that was a meaningful
moment to start a step change and get
into some early scale. But by the time
you were the nth company doing something
like that, you were just doing what you
needed to do to be in the conversation,
not to be the conversation. I'm still
seeing new ads come out that use that
that talk track, that that tonality as
inspiration. Yeah, it's I mean it's very
chummy and it doesn't feel like an ad.
It doesn't It feels like someone
talking, you know, to the friend.
Actually, it's been done so many times
now, but it was new and novel when it
happened. But again, like I didn't make
an investment in that company because of
the video, but that was certainly an
effective go to market. I mean, that's
an interesting example in that like I'm
actually have not bought I haven't
shaved in a long time. So, but uh I'm
curious like you know a business school
textbook might say that razors are
actually probably a bit of a commodity.
Razors are 100% a commodity. Yeah.
Right. My story about investing early in
Dollar Shave Club, I think, is one that
always kind of makes me smile a little
bit in that I had heard about the
business sort of, you know, through
people talking and I was like pretty
dismissive of it in the context of
that's a commodity product and there's
huge players playing in those spaces um
with locks on distribution and enormous
marketing budgets. So, you know,
probably other things to do, but this is
a case of you meet the founder and
you're like, you know what, that person
is special. That person has a unique
insight and they're meeting the moment
with that unique insight, but their
vision is something bigger than that.
And I don't think Michael Dubin was
building a razor company. I think he was
tapping into a trend that was men being
part, you know, there was a conversation
online about personal care and beauty
that was reaching men that had never
reached men before. The idea that like
maybe you should use some face lotion,
maybe you should wash your face, other
things like I think that was a bigger
trend that was underpinning this idea.
Shaving was an message to deliver that
resonated because every guy knew how to
shave. So if you could bring them in
through that way and then start to kind
of play into that conversation about the
broader narrative. I think from a
business model standpoint, what was
really novel and what you know I look
back on and think what we were investing
in at the time was a a shift. So I just
talked to you a little bit about the
consumer shift, the demand shift. Then
there was the technology shift. It was
the social web. It was a whole new way
for people to discover products, to have
conversation, just to to to get ideas
about what to buy and how to buy it. And
so that led to a different way to launch
a company. Instead of going into a
retail store with a huge order um that
took you 9 months to prep for at scale,
six months to get data from afterwards,
you could put up a website and sell a
few products or you could put up a
website and say you were going to sell a
few products and understand the demand.
So like that was a a novel change in a
go-to market strategy for a business and
I mean CPG is still sort of transforming
like I remember uh working with the
Instacart team and they came and asked
hey do you have any idea how much money
Proctor and Gamble spends both to get
the data and to get uh placement in
supermarkets and I had no idea and it's
it's billions. It's like a giant
percentage of their gross margin just
gets plowed right back into things that
you can just get on Instacart for much
cheaper. It's like a far better value
prop for CPG than Everything is always
evolving and changing, right? I heard a
a really interesting stat from a friend
that works at one of the big CPG
companies just this week, a few years
ago, let's call it five years ago or so,
4% of their sales came from organic word
of mouth. Oh wow. what they call like
that 48% now. Oh wow. Now I think that's
everything on social and that's
happening. So yes there's big marketing
budgets but there's also all kinds of
other unlock. So that kind of
fundamental shift like what does that
mean for their business model and that's
only happened in the last in the last
handful of years. I I can't remember
exactly what it was but it was you know
it was a it was a data point they were
looking at to see like wow this shift
has you know clearly taken shape and
happened. I mean you and I have been
like meeting with founders who had been
talking about that for 10 years or 15
years and it's isn't that fascinating
that I mean I think that's one of the
really exciting and privileged places of
where where we're work and where we're
involved is you are seeing things early
right I think we tend to kind of think
like oh this is already mass everybody
knows it but but it's not that being
said things are h the pickup is
happening faster and faster I think
getting back to where we were talking
about earlier like the adoption of chat
GPT that is not just young people or
people you know in certain cities it is
people in the middle of the country in
the middle of their life that are now
showing like the change in search you
know another interesting thing and I
don't think this is surprising but just
to say talking to a lot of uh scaled
brands and retailers in particular that
one of the ch like one of the first
challenges that they're trying to
address with new AI tools is search on
their sites because they're all built on
keywords and people are showing up to do
conversational search. Interesting.
Yeah. So, it's time to upgrade. It's
time to upgrade. Yeah. Well, that sounds
like a good idea. That sounds like a
more B2B idea, but it's certainly one.
Definitely like, you know, search across
the spectrum is is is a huge
opportunity. So is the ad market. Well,
I mean, uh, Fiji Simo is the new CEO of
applications at Chat GPT. Um I believe
she built the news feed for Facebook and
worked on fundamental pieces of
monetization both for Facebook and for
Instacart. So I don't know what
prognosticate like you know what does
this mean for Open AI? Should we be
expecting ads uh in our chat results? I
mean, I what I think it means it means
exciting things for for Open AI and
probably for all of us as consumers of
Open AI because I do think that like you
said she's been involved in some of the
most iconic products and made them
better and I think the fact that they're
hiring at that level of seniority to
oversee the topic of applications
obviously says that that matters
immensely. Yeah. I think the next
question, you know, that gets begged to
ask off of that is like are we just
going to do everything on chat GPT? I
mean seemingly and then that means that
but I I actually just don't think that's
the way the world works. Okay. Yeah.
what what like I guess we'll use some
Google some perplexity some chat GPT
there will be well so that's in the
context of search right and I think
search is actually like if you if you
kind of look back of like all the big
categories the big tech leaders from
each you know domain we can talk about
that but like I think Google starting in
search probably held the most dominance
in a category in a in an activity than
anybody else right because like for
instance Amazon it's the juggernaut out
of retail. Probably everybody in America
has an Amazon account and shops on
Amazon. We don't shop for everything on
Amazon. We don't want to shop for
everything on Amazon. So, you know,
there is a cap, I think, to the market
share that can happen there because I
think that like there's there's
relevance in the longtail, there's
relevance in specialty that by category
and people want to have different kinds
of experiences at the category level in
in shopping too. You have other
verticals pop up, right? I guess in
search you did too because if you had
ubiquitous search on Google and then you
got Yelp and you got you know big
platforms that became areas for search.
Yeah. And it happens in uh you know
Amazon. I I actually kind of use it as
product search. Like I'm kind of
disappointed when something I want to
buy isn't I mean I don't know what the
stat is. I knew it before but like there
is a large portion of shopping journeys
that start on Amazon. Yeah. Going back
to chat GPT, I mean, will we have to pay
for ads or, you know, is it back to the
SEO game? What's gonna happen to that
whole game? Do you have a sense? Right
now, I'm interested in playing it from
both of those, right? Because we don't
know. Yeah, but there's a reason to
believe that both of those types of
disciplines will find their way into our
new interfaces. Yeah, that's wild.
What's funny about AI models is uh I'd
be curious if Chat GPT would ever make
you pay to make it into the corpus that
LLM retrains on? That might be a big
complicated topic, right? Because does
that compromise what you're putting out
in your results, right? I mean, I think
safer to get to a place where you're
like, well, we'll serve up maybe maybe
two types of answers. I think the FTC
actually requires you to uh call out
sponsored links. They do. So, if you
look like Instagram has been right. You
can't you have to have some indication
there that you're promoting a product or
you're being paid to promote a product.
Yeah. Maybe it's just premature to
speculate. One funny question would be
in Chad GPT, will we have the web search
button right in that input box in a in a
year from now or will it just be you
know obvious that the agent is smart
enough it'll know when it needs to
search the web or not like today it's
sort of this broken experience of it is
is it already does because it didn't
have those capabilities when it first
came out. it was sort of identified
differently and then they brought in oh
we have real-time web here so now we
have a web search you don't actually
have to press the web search every time
yeah that's right it started doing it
automatically already so let's talk
about your uh latest trend report your
two of the things that you pulled out
and are really excited about it's health
and wellness and personal security what
are you seeing over there just to back
up for a sec we do the trend report
every year and really we started just
two years ago publishing it was work
we'd done all the time on an ongoing
basis, but it seemed like something to
share and get conversation going around.
So, this year we did a bit of a deeper
dive on health and wellness and
security. And when we say security, we
mean everything from we we mean it like
more in the context of securing your
life, like having a a stable career, a
stable finances, those things, not like
national security, right? Partly that
trend popped up because we have as a
society we've been through so much and I
think at this point we've been through
enough tough things in a short enough
period of time that the right idea to
pull forward is that's just how the
world is now like it moves faster.
There's more debates there and there's
going to be more uncertainty out of
that. So this idea of like okay what
does security look like for me? How do I
ensure that I'm going to to live the
life I want and flourish in a market
that's evolving very fast around me? I
think is, you know, it's a it's a
vulnerability. People are showing us
that they feel and I think there's a
real opportunity for tech and some of
the invention that happens from founders
to address some of those needs, which is
why we thought that topic was really
interesting. And it actually like
dubtales into health and wellness a lot,
which is a trend that we've all been
talking about for a long time. It's not
a new trend, but it is a massive trend
because it's gone from health, which has
been largely a reactive
trend, if you will, or reactive reality
to wellness. So, it's broadened in that
and it's become proactive health. And
that's happened I I think our hypothesis
it's happened because the health care
system has let people down. So, they
have felt like we have to be more
proactive with our own health. And that
was enabled in the context of getting a
lot more information so people could
start to have awareness around what it
meant to live a healthy life. And now we
have lots of tools and products to
support that. And even though it's been
a robust trend for let's call it the
last decade, there's still so much more
that can be done. And I think there's
probably a really good um across the
spectrum a really good evolution to come
out of uh Gen AI and all and the
integration there. It seems like it's
you know a PhD and an MD in your pocket
at any given moment actually. I mean I
think that is the dream right. So there
there are things called concierge doctor
services that some people have. It is
not something that's accessible to most
people because there aren't enough
humans to deliver that and the cost is
prohibitive. But imagine things we've
been talking about in this conversation
with AI. the ability to share your
personal data to have that be context to
develop a track record or you know a
history over time to be able to
interpret that data think about that
being applied in a health in a health
atmosphere is amazing yeah can you
imagine what's happening uh right now
it's everyone's getting a you know 150
IQ Jiminy Cricut on their shoulder that
knows everything about them and then
simultaneous to that they're getting a
GLP1 that lets them control uh their
cravings. But you one of the weirder
things that's happening with GLP1s, I'm
sure you're tracking, is that it gives
you uh unbelievable willpower. Like
people who bite their nails, they stop
biting their nails or like people who
struggle with alcohol just because they
go on a you take something that's such a
big trend like that and there are
multiple second order second and third
order impacts out of that. So I think
that like while people are adopting more
proactive um measures around their
health, they're unlocking new needs and
new capabilities in that too. Yeah. Did
have you seen those uh social media
posts about um with chat GPT they just
sort of explain what's you know their
symptoms of their back pain y or neck
pain or things like that and they
literally just do what uh chat GPT tells
them to do and it fixes it. or um like
tenitis like there are all these crazy
stories of people who you know they
could have googled. So I think like this
is a good example that kind of ties to
what we were talking about earlier which
is like you can go on chat GPT and you
can ask a question you can get a richer
answer than you could ever gotten in the
keyword search and the link search. It
lacks the context of precisely who you
are. So you know we think about the
ability to have almost like that that
search interface if you will for like
all the major categories. So, a
destination for your health information
like maybe superpower is one of our
investments. You go there, you have your
health records brought in, you do an
intake form on who you are, what your
lifestyle is like, you hook up your aura
ring to give your sleep data. Um, you
know, any number of ways you're working
with FY, you put your nutrition
information in. Um, you do your blood
test, you get your your blood draw, and
now you can go in and you can ask a
question about your tendinitis or
whatever. And all of this context
is part of what answer you get back or
what suggestion you get back to be
better. I think that's magical. And I
think, you know, that's a step away from
that concierge doctor. The things that
are sort of unfolding right now, they're
sort of happening inside the walled
garden of chat GPT. It's a great like
playground for these ideas, right? To
see what people are interested in,
what's resonating, what the base
capability set is. But I do think that
for topics that are particularly
important to people, um there is a lot
to be said for a unique interface, you
know, a unique interface that is more
reflective of that particular topic. So
what you would imagine in your dashboard
to your health is different than what
you'd imagine in your dashboard to your
finances or your learning journey or
your shopping. You must get asked this
all the time though. I mean uh given
Chad GPT is so dominant like what space
can you know two people sitting in front
of a computer creating their own
consumer product how do you compete like
what are sort of the the ways forward
there so I do think that chat GPT can
can be a great place for inspiration to
just you know kind of think about like
okay now I've got a different tool I've
got we're no matter what product you're
building you're going to be using these
new tools the new AI tools what
conversations are you having with that
interface that you wouldn't have ever
had before. What new things are people,
you know, curiosities people had or
needs people had before, but but
technology wasn't playing a role in
that, right? And then back away and say,
okay, but if I know some element of this
is possible and interesting to people,
what would the what would the best
experience for this look like? Right?
And that gets back to that idea of just
first principles thinking on like I am
building something new. I'm building
with a new set of technologies that's
going to keep progressing. Like what
would a great starting point be? I mean,
right now we're kind of probably most of
us are in the zone of like it's a chat
bar and you can do a conversation. I
think we can do better. You know, I'm
I'm waiting for someone to wow me with
that and I'm I fully expect it to
happen. I don't think everything needs
to be a chat bar like that. And I think
that's where, you know, you have to be
bold and getting back to that kind of
messy creative stage. like put some
stuff out there, experiment with some
stuff, like try some different
interfaces because we don't want to be
locked into interfaces that are either
last generation or things that were
basically designed for ubiquity. What
other advice would you have? You know, a
lot of the people who are watching,
they're just starting out and so, you
know, are there any things that you're
excited about or you would direct their
attention to right now? Okay. So, big
picture, I feel like tech capabilities
are going to move into this zone of
emotional AI, like the emotional
operating system. So, I think things
where you have an opportunity or a need
to build a relationship are like ripe
for opportunity because I do think that
it's going to be hard, not impossible,
but hard for existing platforms or
existing experiences that weren't built
with that to just roll that forward. So,
it it it feels like a a a good entry
point. I think there's a lot of hype and
a lot of um novelty right now. That's
okay. It's a messy creative stage, but
ultimately like a stronger place to
build a business on is like a need. Why
do they need your product? Why are they
going to come back to your product? Why
are they going to switching costs for a
product? Why are they going to add
another new thing into their already
crowded lives? Like are you sol what
problem are you solving? What couple of
things are you consolidating? You know,
those are sort of the basics I think
that are always true about starting a
new company. Um, but I think you have a
little more liberty now because you've
got this new this new platform and this
new paradigm to build into. Anything
that you can build in the path of where
these LLMs are going is probably
worthwhile, right? So, I wouldn't want
to go against them. I would want to
build into into that tailwind. And if
you can do that, if you have a need, you
can build into that tailwind and you're
bold enough to think about a different
type of experience to set a new stage or
standard in a category, you'd get my
attention for sure. Kirsten, thank you
so much for spending time with us today.
Oh, thanks for having me.
[Music]