Title: Solving the Blank Canvas Problem: Gusto's AI Co-Founder
Video ID: xpeRVyFFy_Q
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xpeRVyFFy_Q
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-07-08T14:00:19Z
Duration: PT32M27S
Views: 21651
Likes: 378
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1023

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[music]
>> I'm here with Eddie Kim, Gusto's
co-founder and head of technology.
Gusto was in YC's winter 2012 batch and
recently crossed a billion dollars in
annual revenue and now serves over
500,000 small businesses in the US.
In fact, one in five new businesses
started today are Gusto customers.
Today, we're going to talk about a new
product they're releasing, which Eddie
actually built himself, called Gusto
co-founder, which uses AI to automate
running a small business. Welcome,
Eddie.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Cool. So, why don't we start I mean,
actually, tell us a little bit about
what exactly is Gusto co-founder. What
does it do and who is it for?
>> Yeah, so simply put, uh, Gusto
co-founder is for small businesses and
it will automate most of the business
processes that a small business has. Um,
many of the things they're already doing
on Gusto, but Gusto co-founder can take
those things and automate it fully. So,
anything from, you know, running their
payroll uh, from start to finish,
approving time off, reminding your
employees to submit timesheets, or even
things outside of Gusto. Uh, one example
I like to give is texting you if it's
going to rain today, cuz if you have a
business that's like a tour guide
business where it's highly dependent on
the weather, you want to know that and
then have Gusto co-founder actually
email all of all of your customers for
the day to let them know that it's going
to rain and they should bring an
umbrella.
>> I mean, I think that's actually a really
interesting point. Like, you guys are in
a unique position cuz you build for
small businesses. They're really less
technically sophisticated than a lot of
the customers that, um, at least
certainly
YC companies today or other technology
companies are building for. So, what do
you see as some of the challenges when
you're trying to design a product for a
small business owner, um, and especially
an AI product that's, you know,
living at the edge?
>> Yeah, I think
one of the issues that I see is,
especially, uh, for small businesses, is
they really still use AI as sort of a
glorified search engine. Kind of ask it
a question, they'll it'll reply.
Uh the more advanced small businesses
out there, and I would argue like not
just small businesses, but like most
people who are using AI, the more
advanced version of this is like maybe
you have it
um do some research for you, generate a
report, or summarize something that you
wrote, right? Or author something. But
they're still kind of largely like I
have this like thing I have in mind, and
then I'm expecting a response from it.
And this is like sort of a a agentic
world that we've been promised has never
really materialized for most people out
there. I think there's like the tech
world that's on the cutting edge, folks
that are like creative enough to come up
with all these ways to automate, you
know, all parts of their lives. But the
remaining 99 99.9%
um are still kind of like using this as
a glorified search engine. And so what
we wanted to do with Gusto co-founder is
bring all of these like agentic promises
that we were received that we received
uh and turn them into into reality. And
so one of the ways that we've done that
with Gusto co-founder is instead of
starting with like a open claw type
experience where
uh it has a lot of powerful
capabilities,
um but it has a main has a prob- has a
problem which I call the blank canvas
problem. We actually start with
all of the things that Gusto's already
solving for our customers. You know,
those are things in payroll, HR, time
scheduling. And then we sort of
suggest ways that we can automate their
running payroll, their approving of
timesheets. These are things that
they're doing sort of on a regular
basis. You know, payrolls run once a
week usually for hourly if you have
hourly employees or twice a month if you
have salaried employees.
Um and we we'll suggest ways that we can
actually take it end to end without the
user even having to like log into Gusto
and and run their process.
>> Um something I'm really curious about is
cuz you guys are already at like massive
scale. Um
How What is it from the inside? What
does it look like trying to get a
product like this is essentially new
product like trying to get it out there?
Like um
How did you come up with the idea and
then just how do you sort of at your
scale again like sort of figure out if
this is something customers want? Like
how does it live alongside the existing
product and just that cuz I feel it's so
much more it's probably more complex
there's more pieces at least than if
you're just like starting from scratch
and it's like you and your co-founders
building it on day one.
>> Yeah.
The original idea came from when uh I
actually set up an open claw myself.
>> Me too.
>> And like probably like you like I spent
8 hours just setting the the thing up.
Um I had to buy a Mac mini cuz at the
time of the world where you could still
get a Mac mini so I was able to actually
get a Mac mini within 2 days. Um
installed everything on it. I wanted to
make sure you know I heard all the
horror stories of it deleting people's
email so I was like very careful to air
gap it and I set up this you know pretty
solid secure open claw which only like
an engineer could could really do
um and once I had like
set all of that up um
I kind of really didn't know what to do
with it right? I actually found myself
also using it as sort of a glorified uh
search engine right? And I thought there
were some really cool aspects of this
like there were like the ability to like
just text
was like sounded so simple and like not
that like innovative to me at the time
but when I actually like had hands-on
experience like doing it myself it was
just like kind of like this is such a
way better experience to like interact
with AI than having to open up a web
browser and and like log in to like uh
Claude or or or ChatGPT.
>> I like I had exactly the same experience
with my open claw and I've just like
been saying this a lot around here at
least that I am.
People just really underestimate chat as
the interface and if anything I found
that as I try to build out more
functionality from Open Claw, like as an
engineer or a tech person, your natural
inclination is always oh, I can like let
me add more functionality or let me make
the client better so that I know so it
has a project management view or
something like that, but I think in the
world of AI you actually want to figure
out ways to make the agent smarter so
that you can do what you want from
Telegram without needing like a fancy
UI.
Has that kind of played out for you
guys?
>> Yeah, absolutely. The other learning by
the way was like, you know, everybody
it's not the first time I heard about
this. Like people were saying like yeah,
the ability to like talk to this thing
with Telegram is pretty cool and you we
read about it and there's like it was
lots of people making YouTube videos
about this.
And but then you really don't get it
until you actually set it up yourself
and you actually have hands-on
experience. And that was like one like
important learning of like it is really
important to still get into the weeds.
Like if you're a technical leader, you
should be coding, but if you're not, you
should also be like not just be reading
about these things like Open Claw, but
you should be
you know, going out there and setting it
up yourself. Because like I just
realized that there's this big gap
between like what you read about and
what you actually experience, right?
They're the same thing, but like that
this like you they're they're completely
different experiences.
>> I agree. So how did you go from kind of
hobbyist interested in Open Claw, let's
see what this can do to
the initial idea for co-founder and
building version one of that?
>> Yeah, so I had set this all up and you
know, had my Open Claw running.
Actually went on vacation.
Went to Madrid and on my way back at the
end of vacation, my layover was in
London and I actually missed my
my the the the second leg of the flight
that was flying from London to San
Francisco. And so then I had all this
time.
I I kind of pissed, but I had my
computer on me and I was like, you know,
writing a lot of code using Cloud Code.
And I was just kind of like blown away
at what you could do with Cloud Code and
like I could just literally just kind of
like share my intent of wanting
something and then Cloud Code would
build it for me. So then I asked myself,
why can't we bring this power into the
hands of our customers? Why do they have
to wait for Gusto to, you know, build
its road map and deliver to our
customers? Why can't our customers
actually like say, I want this from
Gusto, put in a prompt and Gusto
actually builds that experience for
them. So I kind of had that idea like
kind of percolating in my in my mind.
And finally, because of this missed
flight, like I actually had 5 hours of
like uninterrupted time where I could
actually try to build this. So I, you
know, took out my computer, I used Cloud
Code, actually built a prototype of this
in that 5-hour like sitting in the
lounge at the airport. And I was pretty
I was pretty excited about what I had
built. And so when I got back
to work, I started showing it to a few,
you know, engineers, designers,
our leadership, and I spent the next
couple weeks kind of just sort of
refining that idea.
And through conversation, it sort of
evolved like there are pieces of this
that like we really liked, pieces of
this that like didn't work so well, and
eventually led to the start of
development of of Gusto Co-Founder.
>> What did that first prototype API just
have some more
what did it what did it do and then how
did you shape it with the team?
>> Yeah, so it was really just a, you know,
a
a chat
prompt. The customer would say, I want a
user experience where I can
send out a form to my employees and they
can fill out the survey. Or I want to
build a to-do tracking application. Or I
want to build a CRM. So literally the
customer would just say like I want this
and the prototype that I had built would
actually build
the a web app essentially. And it would
use our, um,
Gusto design system, so it actually look
like Gusto had actually built it. And
then it would just be like an
application that they would add to
Gusto. So, you can like literally have
any application that you wanted.
>> And is all the context and data being
pulled on from what uh their Gusto
account, or do you have to go elsewhere?
>> The use case for this prototype was
really just like a CRUD
it it was a CRUD, uh, web app builder.
It like wrote code, it saved it into a
database column somewhere, and then it
would just like execute that code
whenever you visited that that page. So,
it didn't actually, uh, and then I I
added like the ability to like store
data, but it would be like the data that
you would bring in into it.
>> Cuz that seems like a huge advantage for
you and any company that's in, I guess
now it's been called like the system of
record, but like you have you already
have a ton of data, um,
on the businesses. [clears throat]
At least where you're talking about Open
Core, personally for me I found the
unlock of Open Core is once I found a
way to kind of securely give it access
to things like my email and use
embeddings, and just it has lots of
context on me, like
>> Right.
>> personally, professionally,
>> Yeah.
>> it can it just orders of magnitude more
useful. As I'm get like
for your customers, like how how does
how does it sort of use the context that
you have on them already to
>> Right.
>> help them do things?
>> Yeah, and and so the prototype was
really cool. Like we had this ability to
like build any kind of like CRUD-based
web app for our customers, but you're
right, it didn't like really leverage
anything about what we knew about the
customer. It didn't like, you know,
populate it with data that we know about
the customer. And so that's how this
idea sort of like went from prototype
and and it sort of evolved to being less
about like building an actual web app,
um, to building more, uh, workflows uh,
that we would automate for our customer,
right? So, we do have a lot of data on
what customers are doing on Gusto. Uh,
we have some data on, you know, what you
know, ba- what based on like what
industry they're in, like if they're a
dentist, like what things they would
typically want to automate, uh, as, you
know, someone in that vertical. We so,
we have all all this data like in
aggregate across all of our customers
and then also like for each individual
customer what they're actually doing on
Gusto. And so, the idea sort of evolved
to like, what if instead of building a
prompt that builds you a web app uh we
leverage a prompt plus the data that we
have about our customers uh to build
them an automation for a business
process that they're doing every single
week. And so, that ultimately became the
uh that's the main concept of Gusto
co-founder which is centered around an
automation. And Gusto co-founder has
many automations for a customer and they
run on sort of a heartbeat that, you
know, gets triggered on a regular basis.
Um that code by the way
Yeah, and so, like I mean part of that
was also like when I was setting up Open
Co I was like curious how it worked. So,
it you know, it's open source so, I just
read the source code of like, how is it
actually like running this like
automation for me?
And it was like surprisingly simple.
It's a cron job that runs an LLM every
30 minutes. And that's exactly how it
works in Gusto co-founder, right? So, it
wasn't even just like some of the
concepts of like, you know, being able
to text it through SMS or talk to it
through Slack but it was literally some
of the like technical designs
uh of co-founder were heavily inspired
by some of these tools that I started
using personally.
>> will say the Open Co heartbeat idea is
great but I found that um
it's it's not actually I end up in like
having to write a lot of just cron
scripts like um
outside of the gateway myself cuz it's
just like not um there's some things you
actually want to be deterministic.
And so, like payroll probably one of
those things.
>> Exactly, yeah. And like I found the
heartbeat um not being deterministic
means it's like probably going to fire.
Like if I tell it to like do something
in the morning it'll probably do it. I
just can't guarantee like when exactly
it's going to do it.
>> Exactly, yeah. Yeah, so I actually for
that exact reason we kind of started
with a heartbeat. We kind of like
improved on it and added like multiple
different ways to like trigger a job.
So, like there are like also
in Gusto co-founder the ability to just
schedule a job via a regular cron,
right? And actually will detect if this
is a type if the thing that the
customer's asking for is more suitable
for a cron versus like running a you
know, a prompt every 30 minutes, which
also can get pretty expensive.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Um I think you guys are in such a unique
position given your customer base. So,
some things I'm also curious about from
just like a sales and talking to the
customer perspective. Um
AI feels like it's such a hot topic in
the enterprise world right now. Like
everyone knows what like a workflow is
or what tokens are and what their token
budget and it's just sort of like in the
consciousness.
I'm imagining when you like your
customers,
I'm sure they've read about AI, but they
probably haven't like I don't know if
like automating workflows means as much
to them. So, how do you when you first
go and show these products to them? Like
do you do you have to think about
messaging it differently? Like
Yeah. Like you just what's that process
like?
>> I I think
businesses on Gusto like are I think
we're pretty in a pretty unique
situation because the things that people
do on Gusto are sort of recurring tasks
like running payroll, like approving
time off, like things that they do week
in and week out. And they know that it
actually wastes a lot of their time.
Um so, running payroll is actually like
a pretty involved process that usually
involves you know, exporting data from
one system,
uh manipulating that data, and then
putting it into Gusto, and then running
payroll. So, for example, like there's a
business like a massage
uh spa business that um I talked to, and
they export data from Mindbody, they put
into Google Sheets, they have all these
calculations on how that data from
Mindbody gets translated into
uh commission, tips, and
um and hours, and and things like that.
And then, and only then, they put it
into Gusto,
and they run payroll. That last part is
obviously like very, very simple and
straightforward, but it's all like kind
of like this work before the work that
takes them a lot of time, and they do
like literally every single week, right?
And so, when you like actually talk
about this to your customer, like they
actually instantly get it because they
have so many of these like, "I do this
every week. Like it's on my calendar,
and it takes me like 1 hour every single
week." And if
Gusto co-founder can just like do this
for me, and it just texts me like a
summary with a final approval where I
just say yes or no
over either SMS or Slack, like they
actually really get that. It doesn't
really take much like selling at all.
>> Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And
actually, I guess now I'm you're hearing
you talk about it, I realize there's um
there's a headwind you don't have, which
is if you're selling into sort of like
an an enterprise, there you never see
face some resistance from people maybe
worrying about how it's going to affect
their jobs, and like what it like
uh what it means for their role in the
company. Whereas, if you're working with
small businesses, it just seems like
it's all upside cuz none of them want
presumably want to be like exporting
data out of my body and putting it into
QuickBooks or or whatever.
>> Yeah, totally. They just want to be able
to do more with less. Like small
business owners, they're
entrepreneurial, they're scrappy,
they're like founders, right? And so,
like anything that you give them that
can like save them time so they can go
spend more time on like building their
business. Like that's that's that's a
that's a that's a hard yes for them.
>> Yeah, I'm curious on that front,
extending it out. Like
what do you think happens? Like this
product
Co-founder successful, which I'm sure it
will be, frees up a lot of time for the
these small business owners. Kind of
where do you think that time goes, or
maybe what are going to be knock-on
effects of that?
>> I mean, I think they're going to, you
know, spend this time looking for ways
to grow their business, like expanding
into more products, thinking a little
bit more about strategy, how do they
expand? So, all of a sudden, it like
frees them up to do all these things
that uh they want to do, but they just
didn't really have time to do. I think
that's like step one of like what we're
trying to do with Co-founder. Step two
is like we also want it to be like and
the reason why we called it Co-founder
is we want it to be more than just a
business process automator. We want it
to actually proactively let the customer
know about things that, you know, they
aren't doing that they should be doing,
right? That can range from like
compliance tasks to like, you know, um
stay, you know, make sure that they're
aware of like the latest that's
happening in like business compliance.
But, another is like, "Oh, you're doing
some qualified research
in your business.
There's a tax credit that you can get
that the government offers called the
R&D tax credit. Um based on what I'm
seeing in your company,
you're probably eligible for this, and I
can fill out the forms for you and make
sure that like you get this credit. Just
I just need you to kind of like review
it and and like let me give me
permission to go. Let me do that." And
like that business owner might say,
"Wow, that's amazing. Like I didn't
really know that existed. Go ahead and
do that for me, right?" And that's
that's not a hypothetical story. Like
there was a company called Cabana Pools
that like we actually found them $50,000
in R&D tax credit. They didn't really
know that that was possible.
>> I bet you guys are in a really
interesting spot to like you like level
up the businesses, too. Like in another
lifetime, I used to build software for
eBay power sellers. Um and I found that
um
there's like there was like a sliver of
power sellers who understood the value
of like software and tools to, you know,
like automate listings. Right? In
particular, what they would do is look
at their um
like listings in the same category and
just constantly checking like the
pricing and if they were priced
appropriately.
>> Right.
>> Um
but they they those were like the like
top 1% of technically sophisticated eBay
power sellers. I just like now you guys
are in a good position where you could
just take any small business and give
them like market intelligence. Like what
like what should you be selling? Like
how could you optimize your business?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, one of the
automations I saw was um every week like
take a look at what my competitors are
doing and and generate a report for me
and give me some suggestions on what I
could do
to stay ahead, right? That's like one of
the like more creative automations that
I've seen.
But, you know, there's also no reason
why we shouldn't be able to like say,
"Oh, you're an eBay seller, like
this is what you should be doing, right?
And and then kind of like
ask the user if we can run this for them
like every week. That's a great example
of like kind of maybe more of a
proactive business partner
that Gusto Co-Founder could become.
>> How's it going so far? Like how many Can
you share anything about how many
businesses are using it and what
anything that surprised you?
>> Well, so we just launched it and we
added 500 customers to to Gusto
Co-Founder. And before that, we had like
a kind of a pre-launch with
We We call it a small business council,
like a really small group of like 20
customers that we give like really early
access to to things to to give it
feedback. And the feedback has been
incredible. Like as expected, like they
everybody is blown away by the ability
to run everything I'm doing on Gusto
through text message, right? This is the
same experience. So, same experience I
had with Telegram with Open Claw, like I
saw it in their face when when when we
when I said, you know, try this thing,
give us the phone number and like
put in the eight-digit code to set it to
set up the connection. And now you can
like run your payroll or contractor
payment through through text message,
right? So, that was like one like very
clear feedback that we got. Like this is
incredible. Like I can do this
anywhere I'm at and it's so accessible.
It's been really cool to see just the
automations that that companies are
creating.
It's been What's been surprising is a
lot of the automations don't necessarily
have to do with things that Gusto is
already doing for them. So, obviously
like the obvious ones are like payroll,
time approvals, expense approvals,
things like that. But like if, you know,
like you're you're a tour business, like
text me the the what text me every
morning if it's going to rain um today
and if so, send an email to my customer
list, which sits in this Excel file
here, and let them know to bring an
umbrella for today's tour, right? That's
like has nothing to do with what Gusto
does for them at all, but is absolutely
possible in what people are doing with
with Co-Founder.
>> Um what's next? Any what what's next in
the road map for Gusto Co-Founder?
>> Uh there's so many things. Like right
now we have SMS and Slack. I want to add
like a lot more channels.
Um so I do want to add things like uh
Telegram. I think a lot of businesses do
things uh through WhatsApp.
>> a big [clears throat] one.
>> SMS is kind of a pain because like
you're just limited on the on the
character count. So like just having
Telegram or WhatsApp, I think it it
are going to be like really important
channels. We want to add a lot more we
call uh connectors, which are like right
now today we have things like QuickBooks
and Notion and Google Workspace.
Um but there's a lot of like vertical
specific connectors. Um I heard of a
company I was talking to a dent- dental
practice that uses um a patient
management system called Curve Dental.
And so like why couldn't we get
information in and out of there?
Um so there's probably like hundreds of
connectors that we could be um adding. I
I think we're in this mode where we're
just going to really observe what people
are doing and you know, it's it's almost
like when we launched where
we we don't really know exactly how
people are going to use it, but
uh we're going to let the customers
guide how we evolve the the road map.
>> Yeah, I mean I might a lot of what
you're talking about right now seems
like it you it will also pour fuel on
the fire or help someone's existing
business, but I wonder if there's ways
to take it just get more people starting
businesses who wouldn't have done
>> Yeah. Done otherwise.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and and actually uh one of
the things that we want to do in our
next version of this is open it up to um
people that don't necessarily have a
company today. Uh right now you have to
be a payroll admin on Gusto on it's
basically have to be an administrator
for a company uh to use Gusto
Co-Founder. But we actually built it we
built the data models in a way where
that doesn't necessarily have to be
true. You could use Gusto Co-Founder
even if you don't have a EIN yet, right?
So if you're thinking about starting a
business or maybe you already have like
a side hustle, like you should be able
to use Gusto Co-Founder to automate and
help you grow that business. And of
course at some point like your business
grows and you might say to Gusto
Co-Founder like can you help me get an
EIN or can you help me register to be an
employer in California and we would go
do all that for you because we actually
already have those capabilities as a
company.
>> How has this product launch felt
different for you personally? Like I'm
now you've always been obviously very
close to the product and
and things are launching but I'm
guessing now like in the era of vibe
coding you're able to like like you
could build the prototype yourself
versus like trying to get a team to
rally around it.
>> That to me was even more mind-blowing
than like kind of the what we built is
like kind of how we built it.
So obviously it started with this like
prototype.
I just kind of like showed a few of our
engineers and designers and ultimately
just kind of like organically roped them
into working on this thing for me. So
one big change was like I was
This is actually built by five people,
five AI builders over the course of 10
weeks.
From start to finish. Just a
whiteboarding session and 10 weeks later
like we went to through a full-blown
like tier one launch in the company.
That would never have been possible I
think without AI. And it was and the
fact that it was just done with five
people was also like equally and I was
one of the five
to
in this team was even more mind-blowing
to me.
And so yeah, I mean I think with AI just
the level of like that someone like me
who hasn't been hasn't coded in many
many years like
that's it's just changed so
dramatically. And then we also had we
had it was four engineers and one
designers one designer.
Uh and this designer like was
contributing as much code as any of the
engineers.
>> Right.
>> And it was really, really cool to see a
designer actually be able to like write
like production grade code. And then
also like engineers really be
comfortable with designing, right? And
what happened is the engineers would
kind of let's just like prototype
something, like do their best at design.
They wouldn't be afraid of They wouldn't
get their, you know, wrist slaps because
they didn't, you know, design something
perfectly or use Figma in the beginning.
Um and the designer would
know how to use cloud code enough to
sort of like refine it and make it look
really, really good, right? And at the
same time designer would like
she wants some functionality, she would
write the code. Um and it was pretty
good, but then the engineers would then
take that and like sort of like get it,
you know, the rest of the way there. And
so you kind of have this like merging,
like designers are going more in
engineering and engineers going more
into design. And so the craft really
became secondary and everybody's like
shared
like responsibility was literally to
write and commit code. And we did that
for 10 weeks and we were able to like
move with speed I'd never seen before.
>> What's your advice to other people
running companies already at scale and
they're trying to figure out how do we
like get that kind of product velocity
and how do I like um
get my team more AI filled?
>> It's something that I'm talking a lot
about and and we're discussing a lot at
the company. Like what are what what can
we learn in the process of how
Guesstimate was was built?
Um and I think a lot of it is kind of
like defined a little bit by like what
did we Not necessarily what did we
change, but it's more actually what did
we not do. We didn't have meetings, we
didn't have any text backs, we didn't
have any Figmas. We set the goal of like
we're not going to write any docs. Now,
I wouldn't recommend that for every
single part of the organization,
uh but for what we were doing, which is
like kind of a zero to one type thing,
like all we had If we didn't have like
Jira board, we didn't have like sprint
planning, we didn't have retros.
Uh we just had a uh literally the only
thing that we had was one um perma-zoom.
So, we had a Zoom meeting that was going
24/7. Uh people would just like hop in
and out. And um and Claude code, lots of
Claude code tokens. And that was
it. Like it was almost more defined by
like what we didn't do versus like what
we changed in in how we build software.
>> And it was funny cuz I in a in a sense
there
there's no docs cuz you don't sort of
sit down and formally write the docs and
the specs. But like in a way there's
more documentation ever cuz like the
transcripts of Claude code are
effectively like documentation of like
thoughts and then direction.
>> Yeah, and another thing we learned is
that like I I mean first of all like all
of all of us, myself included, threw
away so much code, right? So, you would
have an idea and before discussing it or
writing a doc about it, I would just
like literally open up a pull request
for it. Then I would go to the Zoom and
be like, "Hey, like I made this thing.
Like what do we all think about it,
right?" And I'd say like there's a good
percentage of time it's like actually
like that's not what we want. We just
delete that code. And that's okay. Like
that actually if you do that and like
you have a hit rate of 50% it actually
is significantly faster than like trying
to like
you know, write a PRD and a Figma and
like getting a green light and like all
that stuff. Like it actually it all that
stuff ends up taking longer than like
just trying to write it three three
different ways and you know, picking one
of the three.
>> One of the things we've been talking or
debating at least internally at YC is
now I mean
AI makes it so cheap to write code, like
you said, that a clear benefit there is
that you can just get your ideas out
there and and discuss something
tangible. Um
uh a downside is like now it's so cheap
you could build like why only build one
thing? You could build like 10 things.
And um we've been debating whether
that's actually good or not. Like do you
actually
in the world of AI is it better to try
and build 10 things at once because you
can or should you still be trying to do
one or two things well? I'm just curious
if you have any thoughts on that.
>> I think you still have to be really
disciplined about like what the product
looks like. Like if anything you have to
be much more disciplined than than
before.
So in that sense like you can't just say
oh I could I could throw every like you
know bell and whistle into this thing
and give it to our customer.
>> Yeah you have a lot more things to say
no to now like
>> Exactly yeah which makes it in some ways
a lot harder. But I think the the way
you get to that like really disciplined
set of functionality that you ultimately
give to your customers I think the best
way to do it is to actually like write
the code in every single like
permutation that
that you can think of and then have a
discussion about it. When you just sort
of like talking about it like from like
a
product requirement or UXR type
perspective there's actually a lot of
information you lose when you don't
actually have the implementation
in front of you. And so I don't know if
you necessarily make a better decision
by like kind of having a bunch of
meetings and writing a bunch of docs and
running a bunch of user research up
front because it's you're still missing
like a
huge part of the input which I think is
the actual implementation cuz you learn
so much in term when you actually like
implement something.
>> Yeah I think there's a certain kind of
like high bandwidth there's sort of like
this data that you get from like just
high bandwidth one-on-one conversations
with customers and watching them
use something that at least yeah Claude
like
doesn't quite have like the AGI to to
replace humans on that.
>> Right yeah
yeah.
>> Like you were saying like essentially
now we live in this age of abundance
right like we can think anything we can
make it happen um
as engineers we've like we're learning
to channel that but how um what's your
advice for maybe small businesses like
now it seems like uh it's an easier time
than ever to start a business run a
business um
what's your what's your advice to them
to make the most of this opportunity?
>> Yeah I mean I I think we've been on the
secular trend for the past 15 years
where it's become easier and easier to
start a small business. I think Gusto's
been a part of that story with you know
making parts of the back office like
running payroll a lot easier than it was
before.
And now I think with AI like it's like
kind of a step function easier than even
before to start a business. All these
things that
you still had to like that were easier
to do all these business processes
compliance setting up benefits figuring
out like arcane HR rules like all that
stuff
was still work for a small business
despite it being much easier than it was
before.
But now with AI like I think you can
literally like automate many of these
things and like focus on what business
owners want to do most which is like
just really focus on you know building
their products getting more customers
growing growing their business and so
and we're seeing it in the data right
we're seeing it in census data of like
how many business applications the
government is receiving like more and
more people are seeing this as a viable
path for them to pursue.
>> I mean I think it's like a great time to
just on the flip side also just be a
consumer like we're just going to have
more goods and services to choose from
than ever so it's just kind of like a
pretty amazing time to be alive.
>> Yeah, totally. And I love small business
because like it's just like I don't know
like you walk around Dogpatch here and
just walking down like 3rd Street and
seeing all the like
random and quirky businesses that like
just I don't know it just makes it so
much more interesting to live in your
communities.
>> Cool. Okay, well Andy thanks so much
really excited to see where Gusto
co-founder goes. That's all we have time
for today. So
>> Thanks for having me.
>> [music]
[music]