Title: Kathryn Minshew at Startup School NY 2014
Video ID: XS-kKX9wQk0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XS-kKX9wQk0
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-06-20T08:14:36Z
Duration: PT24M2S
Views: 27637
Likes: 283
Tags: Kathryn Minshew, Y Combinator, Startup School
Transcript Language: English (en)
Auto-generated: False
Snippets: 367

Description:
Kathryn Minshew speaks at Startup School NY 2014

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

- Next you're gonna hear from Kathryn
Minshew. Kathryn is the CEO and
founder of The Muse. So, The Muse is
a job discovery tool that's helping
one million people a month find the
career, find careers at awesome
companies. So, Kathryn has heard me say
this before but one of my favorite fun
facts about her is that when she was a
kid, she wanted to be Zorro when she
grew up. but you know she, she's not
Zorro today but she didn't do too
shabbily, before she started The Muse,
Kathryn worked with the Clinton
Health Initiative focusing on vaccine
access in Africa. And before that she
was in McKinsey and Company. So, I'm
really happy to have her here today.
Welcome, Kathryn.
[applause]
- Hi, everyone. I'm very, very excited
to be here with you a little bit today.
Um, as she said I'm Kathryn Minshew. I'm
the founder and CEO of a company called
The Muse. Um, and we help people figure
out essentially what do they want to do
with their lives and how do they get
there. So, career advice, free classes,
job opportunities, and behind the scene
profiles and to, what it's actually
like to work at places like Facebook,
Uber, Gucci... But, what I wanna talk to
you all about today is a perception issue
that I think exists in this startup
world. And that's very easy to look
at companies two or three down, years
down the line, sometimes companies that
are quite a bit further than that. See
everything they built... This is
Facebook's profile of The Muse, you can
see, you know, all of the different
photo-videos, a lot of design we
spent time on. And it's easy to look
at things like that and say, "Wow, you
know, people must have these brilliant
ideas that sort of hit them like a
flash of lightning, and then instantly
they start creating." It's much much
easier to show the successful growth than
to talk about what often comes before,
which as I said is a lot of failure. So
I'm a veteran of two companies, The Muse
is second startup, and I don't often
talk about the first because it looked
like this. Um, and in case you can't see
it, that's nearly flat growth at around
3000 users a month over eight or nine
months. So, it was repetitive and
consistent failure. And I think
consistently when you look at startups
it's much easier to pretend that you're
crushing it all the time than to
show the work in progress, but make
no mistakes, most startups are a work
in progress. In fact, I like to say the
word evolution from suck to suck-less.
So, I wanna take you through the early
kind of suck of The Muse, and walk you
through some of the lessons we learned,
a couple of "Oh God! Why did we do
that mistake", and a few things that
hopefully would be helpful for you
all as you go around starting businesses
or building companies. So The Muse's
origin story starts with me as a three
year old wanting wanting to be a
firefighter, and as Kat said I also
desperately wanted to be Zorro, not
realizing that that was perhaps not a
viable career path. But my grandfather
was a firefighter and I had a pretty
clear idea of what it meant to do that.
And then as I got older, I thought to
myself, well, for a while I wanted to
be a CIA agent or international woman
of mystery, for a long time as well,
I thought that, you know, maybe I
would be Broadway actress, and so
actually, it's quite fun to be back here
on this sort of stage. Um, but when I
started my first job, which was a
management consulting job at McKinsey,
I knew that that wasn't it. That wasn't
what I wanted to be doing in two,
three, four, five years, and so I set out
to figure out, well, what do I want to
be doing with my life. I asked friends
and family, a lot of them are in
relatively traditional careers: banking,
law, I didn't want to do those. And
then I went to job boards, which is where
a lot of people end up. And, oh geeze,
this is what I got, these are the sort
of things I was seeing on a daily
basis, including one search on Monster,
I think it was for business strategy
jobs that told me I should be an assistant
manager at a 7/11 at Seacaucus,
New Jersey. I was like, thank you very
much. Um, I took some career quizzes,
one of them said I should be a merchant
mariner, I think because I like to
travel and I enjoy the outdoors.
But ultimately, there was really
nothing that gave me any sense of what
it actually meant to do different
jobs. And at the same time I met my
co-founders, one of them, Alex, is
here today, and we started talking about
some of these issues around the fact
that the way people think about their
career has changed so much. People are
no longer kind of looking for
transactional "I show up at nine, I
leave at five, you give me a paycheck".
They're much more concerned with
questions like, well, "What is the culture
of the company?" "What will I do when
I get there?" Um, "How will I play a part
in the company's growth?" And you can't
get that through a lot of platforms. And
I wish I could say that the kind of
idea for The Muse hit us like a bolt
of lightning or like Athena springing
fully-formed out the head of Zeus. But
in reality it was much, much more
slow, in fact this is our first website
that we launched with in September 6,
2011. And, honestly, it's kind of a piece
of crap. And we thought it was great at
the time, and given that were basically
subsisting on ramen, and, and
hopes and dreams, it was I think a
very good effort. In fact we attracted
20,000 people in the first month, 26,000
on the second month, 70,000 people on
the third. So clearly we get hit some
sort of a cord, even though, obviously,
there was a lot, a lot to be desired.
We started out with career content,
because when you create a marketplace,
where you have buyers and sellers, in
this case, candidates and companies who
want to hire them, it's a lot easier if
you can get one side of the market place
started first. And so we thought,
well, if we don't wanna have a whole bunch
of jobs on there first, if we can't get
companies to work with us, what's one way
to solve that problem, career content.
We also started testing the appetite for
jobs and a lot of things I think is
funny is the very first company that we
ever worked with was Uber, when they
had maybe 50 employees. They're active
in two cities and they were trying to
launch Chicago. Um, and we did a little
test with them and it was really
interesting because what it proved
was, people said, you know, "This is a
little bit hard to use", The design's
pretty ugly", but they got to see a bit
more inside, what was it actually like
to work at Uber before they applied, and
it was a pretty big success on both sides.
So, then we really said about
building word of mouth. Um, we, you know,
we have this platform... Our original
concept was actually geared at
professional women, and so we thought to
ourselves, alright, what are the ways
to get users with no money, with
absolutely no, we had no reputations, we
had no connections. Um, the four things
we found to be super effective, one was
just asking for word of mouth. Um, so
when we launched The Muse, I scraped my
Gmail for everyone that I emailed with
over the past three years. I took out
things like donotreply@paypal, I took
out things that were clearly, you know,
someone that was either a bot or
that I hadn't communicated with. And
for everyone else I sent a really nice
short email that said "I wanna let you
know we're launching The Muse." I had a
one line description. I said if you wanna
share on social, here is a tweet, so
people could literally copy paste a post
because if you ask people to tweet,
you don't tell them what to tweet a lot
of people won't bother. And I sent it
to so many people that Google actually
shut down my account because they
thought I was a spammer. And then that
happens, FYI, at about 12 hundred
emails in one day. Um, so I don't
actually recommend doing that, but we
asked a lot of people to help us. Um,
we also reached out to, like-minded
groups. So, since we were doing a
woman's career site, I reached out to
probably six, seven hundred groups
individually. Small professional
organizations, you know, massive
industry groups, and I said this is what
I'm doing and I'd love your feedback. So
if you just ask people to share, often
it's, it's almost like you're asking
for something from them instead of
saying I would love your opinion, and
we did get a lot of great opinions, and
obviously a lot of people shared it. And
then content, like content can become
your best friend. Again when we were
trying to get an audience and get
awareness around what it was we were
doing, one of the most effective things
for us was creating great content on
career issues. Because if I posted a
site right now and I said I'm looking
for people who want jobs in New York
and San Francisco, that'd be a relatively
small percentage of people in this
room or in the general population. But if
I say, I have a really great article on
how to be more effective at answering
email, or how to master the
informational interview, there's a much
wider population of people that that
draws. And it was one of the reasons,
I think, that as we grew we were able
to create our own PR and our own buzz.
Um, and then, despite the fact that we
were growing, we entered the fundraising
trough of sorrow. So this is the
fall of 2011 and we had this kind of baby
site on the, off the ground. We were
seeing about 70,000 people a month coming
in our first, you know, our third month
alive, and yet we were kind of running
into the same issues over and over and
over again. In fact, I pitched a
hundred and forty-eight people, oh,
sorry, a hundred and fifty people in New
York City... I like to joke that I've
pitched every single investor in New York
City at least once. Um, I've pitched
a hundred and fifty of them, and a hundred
and forty-eight said no, and two said
maybe, come back to us, I like what
you're doing. And it was interesting, I
mean, content was very, very unsexy in
2011, so I think there's a lot of ways
that the themes of the investment market
can affect how people are interested in
what you're doing. job search was
also not particularly sexy and we
were also running up against some
really interesting long held
stereotypes. So since at the time we
were targeting professional women, I
had a lot of people say to me like,
"Well, aren't those women gonna lose
interest in your site once they turn 30
and have babies?" I was like, "No, it
doesn't actually work that way anymore
but thank you for your input." Um, we
had a lot of really interesting, really
really interesting feedback, I also
had, you know, yeah, people, people
said things like, "Well I'm sure women
from New York really care about their
careers but once you get outside of
that, you know..." Um, so we have to
also do a little bit of, of, kind of,
telling a lot of the investors we were
speaking that we weren't building
necessarily a product for people like
them. We're building a product for
someone who's 27 years old, living in
Chicago or St. Louis or Boston who
wants to do something different than
what they're doing right now but
doesn't necessarily have their personal
network to get there. And what was
interesting is the first people who
gave us a 100% definitive yes was Y
Combinator. Um, so this is us on the
day we interviewed... We were absolute
fucking terrified. Um, we were also a
little bit though, I think we were a
little bit, I don't know if raw is the
right word, but by the time we did our
YC application, I felt like I had been
turned down by so many people, I didn't
really give a fuck if anyone else turned
us down. And I think I actually put in
our application, which is online if you
Google "The Muse YC application" you
can probably find it, we published our
entire application and I think they
actually wrote a line in there which was
like "Even if you don't fund us, and
we hope you fund us, but even if you don't
fund us we're gonna do exactly this
and we're gonna take over the world." And
I basically told, you know, take it or
leave it. Um, and I think that sort of
attitude that we were going to make
this work, come hell or high water or
anything, really resonated. Um, and,
you know, we were watching that really
terrible, I think it was a George
Clooney moonie the, movie, the Aides of
March. I don't remember any of it but
we were sitting there and my phone was,
you know, on the the seat between Alex
and I, and it lit up with the number from
YC and you know if you, if they call
you, you've gotten in. And if they email
you, you haven't. And I just went
tearing out of the theater with Alex
and Melissa following me and I put it
on speaker, and of course when PG said,
you know, we want to invite you to be in
the next class, Melissa started screaming
and I'm like "Shut up, shut up, shut
up" and you know, put it back on mute.
Um, but it was really exciting and we
know, we felt like we have arrived. We
have been funded by YC and our troubles
are over. And, as Zack said, that is never
true. I don't think that it's ever
possible to say like we're here, our
troubles are completely over. Um, in
fact as soon as we get accepted to YC,
we started thinking really big. And
in fact, too big, because our first ideas
were insanely complicated. Um, this
is a mock that we made of what we wanted
The Muse to look like in Ja-, what is
it, January 2012, right when we started
YC. And it has a ton going on. There's
seven different features here. It was
going to, you know, pull in from all
your different social networks, and be
optimized for your personality, and
a million other things. And I remember
going into a meeting with PG and couple
other partners, and you know, we were
so proud, and we started to kind of
explain and put it on the white board
and within seconds he's like "Whoa
whoa. Just launch, already." And and
that was, I mean, that was a big moment
for us. He basically said "This will never
get off the ground, you will never be
able to test which of these seven things
people are excited. Pick one, strip
it down, and launch, and start to test
demand." And so within the next 14
days, we redesigned the profiles, found
five companies to be clients, sent
photographers from our network into their
offices and launched on TechCrunch
on February 22nd. Now, it is obviously
been pretty crazy road since then. Um,
we know, we were reaching about a
hundred thousand people a month when we
launched. We're seeing about a million
and a half a month now. Um, we work with
200 friends which never would have
happened if we had not obviously
upgraded and iterated(ph) the design.
But there's, there's basically a
couple of key things that that I feel
like we learned some the hard ways, some
luckily less so that I wanna run through
in my last couple minutes. So the first
is, is honoring your word and not
just contracts, and I was actually
thinking about this in the context of,
you know... The start up community
people say it's, it's often very very
small. It's also very informal. And so
I think it's very common sometimes for
people to have handshake agreements,
on one hand, I have been a victim of
handshake agreements gone terribly
wrong. So I like to tell people when
you're doing an agreement especially if
it's founding a company, working for a
company, to make sure to get things
in writing. But even if you were the one
in the position of power, if you were
the one with the company, I think
it's incredibly important to be known
as someone who will honor your word and
not just the contract especially because
there are always unexpected bumps. So one
of the examples is our first hire ever
was an amazing woman named Adrienne(sp)
whose I think also in the audience
tonight, and, you know, she, she... We
really wanted to hire her early on but
we were, we were dead broke. We had you
know, we didn't have the money to pay
our own rent, I think we were like
bartering for everything that we got.
And so, Adrienne and I talked and I was
like, "Look, we can pay you like this
little bit amount of money consistently
and then in three or four months, once
we've raised, we will pay you a little
bit more, still not a lot. Um, but I
was like, I'll, I'll get you that money,
that second bit, by November 1st,
2011. And October 2011, I started having
stress ulcers because we're not yet
in Y Combinator, we definitely do not
have money, and we were seeing the
numbers going the right way, I knew that
the business had something at its core
that was very, that could be successful,
but we certainly weren't there now. And so
I had to go to her and say this is
exactly what's going on if you, if you
want, I will honor the agreement and we
can essentially kind of, I'll figure out
a way to get you the money by November
1st, or, if you're alright with it, you
know, I think we'll have money by
mid-December. And, luckily, she was
alright with it we raised after when
we got into YC we get a little bit of
capital, we were able to sort of make
everything right. Um, but I think
having that, having that reputation and
making it be very core is something
that I think could take you afar, a long
way especially when, I mean, shit just
sometimes doesn't go according to plan.
The second Zack also covered, but it's
this idea that done is better than perfect
and that you have to start somewhere,
and if you cannot win if you don't pass
go and it's so easy especially if you
have an idea and you know that some people
are gonna say "that idea is stupid",
"that will never work", like "why--" you
know, "what are you thinking about",
"why don't you just go back and get a
nice job". I think it is really easy to
sort of sit in a corner and polish your
idea and say "someday, someday" but
ultimately I think the best ideas they
need to be out in the world and survive
the test of real customers. Because
another thing that happens I think quite
frequently is someone will have an idea
and they only tell a few people close to
them, but those are the people who love
you. You know, if you tell your mom,
"I'm gonna start a company, aimed at, you
know, I don't know, being Zappos for
dogs", like, your mom probably thinks it's
an awesome idea. Um, it maybe a great
idea but I don't think you can know that
'til you have real strangers who don't
care about you, who don't know anything
about you, look at it and use it. Um,
and obviously it's about finding the
people that are the used case because if
you, you know, find people who are cat
lovers who hate dogs, like, they might
not get your idea and that's totally okay.
Um, yeah, and the the final thing is,
you know, this is The Muse now, that's
The Muse then. Nobody looks at the site
and thinks "Wow! That's gonna be a world
changing billion dollar company."
That's okay because we got it out there
and we got just far enough to get to the
next step, to get to the next step and
to get to a point where obviously we're
still really far from being where I'd
like us to go, but the path gets a little
bit clear every time you move down it.
The next thing is to be insanely
persistent but also very very polite. Um,
most things in a startup you will not
get by asking once. In fact, for a lot
of the partnerships that we've gotten,
the deals that have made a massive success
for our business, it was never the
first time we ask for them, or very
very rarely was that first time someone
said "Oh, why yes! Of course, I'll give
you mass amounts of traffic from my
media publication." It's often about
figuring out what it is that you have,
even if you don't have much, that the
other party gets excited about. Um,
who's the right person to ask... When we
first launch, one of the ways that we
got a lot of early traffic to The Muse
was that I noticed the Forbes had a
contributor program where they would
publish content from outside sources.
And so I went to Forbes and I said "I
wanna send you, I wanna give you career
content that we're gonna write form The
Muse and in exchange I want you to put
in the bottom this content was originally
published on The Muse, link link
link." And the first person I talked to
or that I asked didn't answer my email.
And the second person that I asked, about
a week or two later, didn't answer my
email. The third, the fourth time, we
found the right person, they made the
deal happen, and again in our first
month Forbes send around 5000 people to
The Muse and a lot of those people
stuck around because they had come for
something that was very unbrand, and
then essentially been sucked into
our ecosystem. Um, similarly with,
with investing, I think, you know,
we-we certainly more than anyone else
have felt like sometimes the best way is
obviously it's not always about being
persistent with the same people,
but understanding that you just have
to figure out what is it about what
you're doing or what you're asking for
or what you're offering that is gonna be
most of interest to the other party and
then find the right person, and be very
polite but very very persistent, until
you make it happen. Um, this one I've
touched on a little bit, but it is
find the people who share your values
otherwise it will ruin your life. Um,
my first company was not only a failure
because we had flat growth and a
relatively uninspired product, but it
was also a failure because we had
essentially a business dispute between
founders that cost people a lot of
money that led to, you know, my life
savings and those some other people of
being kind of sucked away. And it was
ultimately, relatively foreseeable
because there were couple of red flags
around values issues, how you treat people
that the people saw and people over
looked. And I, I'd absolutely did this
because when you're so focused on the
product, you're so focus on the vision,
it's really easy to say "Oh" like, you
know, "we don't really maybe share values
but it'll all work out." Um, and I can
absolutely say I think one of the smartest
things that I've ever done is make
sure that very very focused on working
with people both externally and
internally. And this goes to investors,
and we've turn down money from people
who had very clear different value
systems. We had to let people go for
ethics lapses, but I think it keeps
your core very strong and it attracts
people to you who also value that than
others. Um, creating velocity, we
talked about this a little bit before
but a lot of people, I think, think of
startups kind of like the Field of Dreams,
which is, you know, "If you build
it, they will come." But actually that
is, in fact, not how a lot of startups
work. Um, you can have an amazing product,
you can put it out there and if 20 people
see it, unless those are the exact 20
people that are going to be excited
about what you're offering that are going
to be the, the core users and they tell
others and they tell others. You may
have something that's amazing but you
won't be able to get it in front of the
right people and so I've been thinking
not only about what you're going to
create, how it will be built, what it's
growth plan is, but also who is it
exactly, who are the right users, and
how do you find them. How do you find
the people that are going to become
evangelists for your product, where are
they now, how do you get in front of
them, and how do you incentivize them
to talk about it in front of other
people. It's the difference ultimately
between being dead and not being dead
in my opinion. Um, six, build an amazing
team. So, I love this picture because
this in front is Doug, he's our director
of sales. Um, on his first day of work
was April first of this past year,
April's Fools day, and so we decided it
would be really fun to all dress up in
formal wear for his first day in the
office. See how long it'll take for him
to notice. Um, of course the first,
you know, five people are in suits and
button downs, he's like looking a
little confused, his... Finally, I
think, someone walked in and in like a
full suit and bright blue sneakers and
his like, "Wait a second, you guys are
pranking me." Um, it was really funny
way to kind of welcome him but for us I
think building, especially when you're
asking people to go above and beyond to
create something, I mean, creating
something that hasn't existed before,
building a company, it's really really
hard. And you often don't have a lot of
cash to compensate people. So I talk to
people sometimes and they say, "Well,
you know, I can't recruit people away
from Google. They have so much more
money than I do." If all people wanted
was money, then yes, they would
probably be working at Google instead of
your startup, but there are so many
things that motivate people. Um, I
love, when recruiting, to figure out,
especially if you're, you wanna hire
someone you're very excited, figure out
what motivates them. Like would they
be excited to speak on a panel as a
representative of your company. You know,
would they be excited if you could
help them meet other people in their
industry. Or set them up with a class
or a tutorial of some sort of expertise.
Is there a new skill that they are
really interested in learning that you
can help them learn because you're a
small company and there's a lot of things
that need being done. When you figure
out what it is that motivates people
other than money, and then help them
achieve that, help them kind of achieve
their professional goals, it is an
unbelievable, powerful way to build a
team especially if you're very very
strapped for cash. And if you're looking
about where to find people, obviously
there are classic examples of, you, you
know you can post your jobs in LinkedIn
or Indeed, The Muse and AngeList are good
for startup jobs. I really like kind
of the dead pool. Um, we only used this
once or twice, but essentially keeping
an eye out for on Hacker News, on
TechCrunch whose startup is losing
people, whose startup is not doing so
well... Um, I remember once when we're
really early and we're desperate for
early hires, Grooveshark got hit by a
massive lawsuit and I went to LinkedIn and
I was look at everyone in Grooveshark
to see whether anyone seem like they might
be interesting and available. Um, I
called that lurking but it can actually
be an effective way. And also getting out
there and networking and speaking. I think
at least two of our awesome people on
our team have come because they've been
in the audience when I was giving some
talk rather, and they were like
it's pretty interesting. Maybe I'll
investigate more and one month, three
months, six months later they'll join
your team. And the last thing I wanna
talk to you about today, the last point I
want to make is you cannot, cannot
believe the hype. Um, we are in an
industry where everyone is raising ten
million dollars on, you know, from
[inaudible] or being on the front page of
TechCrunch or succeeding in some other
massive way, but it really is the most
extreme version of that cliche that you're
comparing you know, your day to day
with everyone else's highlight reel.
And that's why getting very close to
your product and understanding your
numbers and your users, and what drives
them to come to you, what drives them to
use your product and to tell their
friends, and to come back everyday is so
powerful. Because when a hundred and
forty-eight investors told us no,
it was really tempting to think that
maybe they're right and we're wrong. I
mean, who are we? Who are we to say that
we actually think there's something
powerful here? But the closer you are to
your users, and I think to that data,
the easier it is to start to see that
300 people goes to 3000 goes to three
million, and it's much much much
harder to ignore. And it is very very
satisfying to smile at all the people
who told you you couldn't do it. So,
thank you so much.
[applause]