Title: Anthropic Head of Pretraining on Scaling Laws, Compute, and the Future of AI
Video ID: YFeb3yAxtjE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YFeb3yAxtjE
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-09-30T14:00:56Z
Duration: PT1H4M5S
Views: 30205
Likes: 538
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 2336

Description:
Ever wonder what it actually takes to train a frontier AI model?

Ankit Gupta, YC General Partner, sits down with Nick Joseph, Anthropic's Head of Pre-training, to explore the engineering challenges behind training Claude—from managing thousands of GPUs and debugging cursed bugs to balancing compute between pre-training and RL. We cover scaling laws, data strategies, team composition, and why the hardest problems in AI are often infrastructure problems, not ML problems.

Apply to Y Combinator: h

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

[Music]
Hey guys, I'm thrilled to be joined
today by Nick Joseph, the head of
pre-training at Anthropic. To give
viewers a highle sense of what we'll be
covering, we're going to start with the
basics of what pre-training is and then
dig into how Nick thinks about strategy,
data alignment, and infrastructure at
Enthropic. And by the end, you'll
hopefully have a sense for how progress
in AI comes directly from advances in
pre-training. I would love to talk a
little bit about your backstory and kind
of how you got to this point. Where did
you work before Anthropic? And what were
your takeaways from those places? Yeah.
So let's see. I was at Vicarius uh and
then at OpenAI uh before Anthropic. So
Vicarius was originally a GI lab and
sort of when I joined they were sort of
making a shift to product particularly
working on robotics products and the
thing I worked on was like training uh
computer vision models for for their
robotics products. It was my first job.
So I think I just like learned a ton
about like how to do machine learning
models, how to like write machine
learning infrastructure.
>> And at the time were you also thinking
about a career as an academic? Like at
the time a lot of people doing AI work
were in PhDs. That's kind of what I was
thinking about before I started to do a
company. Like how were you thinking
about that in your headsp space?
>> Yeah. So like I'm actually rewind a
little bit. I think like a lot of my
thinking on this had come from an
internship I did at Give Well, which is
like a nonprofit that evaluates
charities. And some people there being
like ah we're at some point we might
have AGI. It could be dangerous. We
should worry about these risks. This
could be like a big impact on humanity.
>> And I was like not super convinced at
the time and went down the economics
route and was going to try to work on
like directly helping people in poverty.
that didn't work out for various reasons
and ended up being like okay I'll at
least work on AI either like the safety
thing will turn out to be important I'll
work on that or it won't be and I'll
just make cool things with AI that can
probably help people in poverty more
>> I wasn't really coming at it from an
academic standpoint I was sort of like
in fact when I switched to that it was
part of the appeal was that I could like
immediately go do stuff in AI whereas if
I want to work in like economic policy
I'd have to wait
>> I don't know six years to do a PhD and
start and like totally uh it's it's a
longer path
>> and and what are the state of AI safety
work at that time even look like? Like
who are the people who were thinking
about that kind of stuff? I mean there
were some folks at vicarious thinking
about this kind of thing but it was
fundamentally a robotics company and and
so yeah how how were you thinking about
that at the time?
>> Yeah. So my sense was like at the time a
lot of the AI safety discussion was kind
of theoretical like the models weren't
actually that good. They weren't really
posing these dangers. So it was a lot
more like philosophical like oh at some
point we might get AI that's really
smart smarter than humans and like
should we wait this like future concern
how should we compare that to near-term
things? And I think that was like
actually a just a less compelling
argument. I think it was like an
interesting one and like sort of made
you think of it.
>> So next you went to OpenAI. What was
OpenAI like at this time?
>> Yeah. So I was at OpenAI. I was on one
of the safety teams and kind of worked
on uh
>> I ended up working on code models
actually and kind of when I got there I
could the the first thing I saw was oh
they'd find tune GT3 to write some code
but and it was really good and I was
like oh okay if you're worried about AI
getting really powerful writing its own
code that seems
>> seems like it could self-improve and how
how likely is that to happen? So it was
doing a bunch of evaluations and like
studies of what contributed
>> and then after like uh eight months uh
basically everyone I worked with like
all all the safety leads left
>> which uh yeah invited me to go to
Anthropic and that was sort of the
reason I joined OpenAI was because I
cared about AI safety and wanted to work
with them. So then I went with them to
join Anthropic uh pretty much right when
it started.
>> With that why don't we transition a bit
these days you run the pre-training team
specifically at Anthropic. Um, obviously
you've been working on pre-training at
anthropic for quite a bit of time and
I'm sure it's evolved over the years,
what that even entails and looks like.
Why don't we start by just talking a
little bit about what pre pre-training
is like? How does it even fit into the
way of thinking about how AI models have
developed at a place like Anthropic? And
what exactly do you guys do?
>> We know that one of the ingredients to
making AI models better is scale. You
want to put a lot of compute in. And if
you sort of step back and you're like,
okay, what's the way we could put the
most compute into a into a model
possible? We need some objective that
there's just like tons of data for. And
one idea here is like the internet. The
internet is massive. It's probably the
biggest like single source of data
humanity has created. And you don't have
labels. It's like you don't want someone
to have to go in and look read the
entire internet and like say something
about it. So you want to get labels out
of the data itself.
>> And the idea here is we can take some
text and we can predict the next word.
So you take you know the as the first
word you predict the second word then
you say the cat and you predict the word
after that. And this means you get very
dense signal. Every every word is like a
new example. And there's a huge amount
of data and one of the findings from my
GT1 GT2 was kind of as you throw more
compute at this more data bigger models
uh you get better you you get smarter
models essentially.
>> Totally.
>> Um and that's kind of been the central
thesis of pre-training for the whole
time.
>> Uh there's this idea of scaling laws
which is that you can actually quantify
like as you put in more compute more
more data more parameters you get models
in a very you get a lower loss a better
prediction of the next word in a very
predictable way. And I think you can
somewhat foresee from that original
paper and I think like Dario did foresee
this I think many people did but wasn't
obvious was that once you have that
there's this positive feedback loop
where you can train a model you can use
it to make something useful and sell
that and get more money use that to buy
more compute and then you actually train
a better model and I we've sort of run
that cycle over and over again over the
past 5 years or so. Well, in thinking
about that objective to begin, you know,
I think the way I think about the state
of pre-training is yeah, it seems like
this next word prediction, at least from
the external standpoint, seems to be the
dominant way pre-training happens. But
if I rewind the clock to that era of
2017 to 2020 or 2021 and two even, there
was all sorts of pre-training objectives
people were considering, right? There
was these uh BERT and BART models that
were doing mass language modeling. It
seems like this GPT series of models
doing uh auto reggressive modeling as
you describe this next word prediction
seems to be the dominant one that won
out. Do you have any reflections on that
time period? Like were you guys trying
all of them and kind of this one worked
or or is there some sort of first
principles reason why this is like the
right one that should have worked?
>> I think the answer is like it's mostly
empirical like in terms of how to think
of the things I'd be like yeah it's
empirical just try them all see what
works. One big advantage for this auto
reagive setup is that you can just
sample from it to generate text
afterwards in a fairly like
straightforward way that comes
>> like enables a product use very nicely.
>> Um like one thing that you want is like
one charact is like a loss whereas you
drive down the loss that actually is the
thing you care about and you can think
of it as like if you got to perfect on
language modeling you now can like write
text as a human. You can sort of imagine
you put in the title of a paper and it
should spit out the entire spit out a
novel paper. Whereas I think some of the
other approaches don't quite have that
uh flavor.
>> Yeah, totally. Yeah, it makes sense that
in terms of that loop you're describing
of, you know, then release something
that gets you revenue and you can use
that to buy more compute and iterate.
This sort of gives you the most natural
way to actually do that flow because you
can keep releasing new products and keep
getting the revenue from that to invest
in more compute and so on.
>> Yeah, it certainly gives you the most
open-ended thing. You could imagine, you
know, you like train something as a
class like you train some base thing,
you fine tune it for a bunch of
particular tasks. one approach people
would use. They would like do this big
pre-training and then they wouldn't just
like open-endedly sample from it. You'd
fine tune it on like a hundred specific
tasks and that could work too. I think
that like the one sort of general
intuition I have is like compute is the
thing that matters. So like I think if
you throw enough compute at any of these
objectives, you're going to get
something that's probably pretty good uh
and can kind of be fine tuned to other
things. And it's it's surprising how
little these details matter compared to
throwing more comput. When you think
about actually throwing more comput,
there's a whole bunch of axes by which
you could throw compute at it too,
right? And if you have a specific model
architecture you're training over, you
can basically throw more data at that
specific architecture. For a particular
one, you could add more layers or make
the models larger in it. You could do
some kind of neural architecture search
over lots of different variants. And I
assume that these days it's somewhat
more figured out, you know, which
architecture you go for. I assume the
earlier days it was somewhat less so.
And and I'm curious if you could speak
to how you guys thought about that. like
what did your infrastructure even look
like to do that type of determination?
>> I mean, I think the the short answer is
it's hard, right? Like what you're
really doing is you're going to train
this one big expensive model and you
have a space of, you know, you can sort
of call all these things
hyperparameters. You know, how many
layers do you have? What's your width?
Like you have the space of hundreds of
hyperparameters and you want them all to
be optimal and you're sort of striking
this balance actually between how much
do they matter like can you just take
your best guess and throw more compute
at it in whatever way you want and
basically doesn't matter. how much you
want to get it precisely correct.
>> Interesting.
>> And I think one of the like interesting
things is like it actually doesn't
matter that much. Like we like I think
this was in one of the early scaling
laws papers like you can change these
things and get little wins but like as
you throw more compute it it sort of
reliably gets better. If you mess up
enough you will you will sort stop
seeing that happen and you won't have
any way to know which is one of the
that's like kind of the hardest part in
some ways.
>> You don't know the counterfactual
basically because you didn't run it for
long enough to actually know what it is.
>> Yeah. We have these scaling laws. So you
can sort of say like as you train more
comput you expect the loss to go down as
a power law.
>> It's really a power law plus constant.
So what eventually will happen is you'll
curve off that power law and then you
know something is wrong and is it
fundamental? Is it like you've hit the
limits of scaling or is it nope you
should have ch you should have tweaked
your learning rate slightly differently
and that's that's sort of one of the
challenges in terms of how to like
figure it out. You can the the usual
paradigm is like test things out at
small scale before running them at large
scale and try to find
>> small scale in terms of data or in terms
of something else? uh in terms of
everything like you kind of want to
scale things down like proportionally.
So you want to say like you want you
want to have some theory for like how
you're going to scale up like ah okay if
I get 10 times as many flops how much of
it goes into layers how much of it goes
into data how much of it goes into
attention
>> and you sort of get that theory and then
>> test that it's optimal a bunch with like
scaling everything down proportionally
>> and and just so I can think about what
this actually looks like in those in
those early days of anthropic you know
you're a team of like 10 or something
like that in those very early days or 12
maybe what actually is your ability to
use large scale infrastructure as like a
relatively nimble startup at that time.
I mean a startup that was well
capitalized but still not actually that
many people working at. What kind of
infrastructure did you have access to to
train these early models at the So
actually one of the wild things was it
at least I mean you don't know what
anyone else is doing of course but it
kind of felt like we were like at the
frontier of it and there just weren't
that many people who cared like I was
sort of coming you know I was coming at
it from like we're making AGI this is
the most important technology ever and
then would kind of like look around and
be like and it seems like I'm one of 30
people who were working on this in like
the world. I mean I was kind of like
junior person. Everyone else sort of
knew how to do this and had done it
before but I was kind of surprised at
how easy it was. Um like the public
estimates for GP3 I remember were that
it cost $5 million to train which you're
like on the one hand five million is
kind of a lot but it's like a lot for an
individual person. It's not really a lot
from like a company perspective. So we
could totally buy like compute that was
enough to train models like that you
could
>> and were you using a cloud provider or
or did you have a custom setup somewhere
or did you literally have racks in a
room somewhere that you were you know
bought a bunch of Nvidia GPUs and you
were doing it? uh we're using a cloud
provider, but I think it's kind of it's
not actually that different because one
of the things that's was surprising to
me is you actually have to understand
the the literal layout. Like uh I
remember at one point uh one of my
co-workers running a clustering
algorithm to identify what rooms all the
chips were in since we we had a
hypothesis that they were in different
rooms and that was causing like or you
know different buildup some sort of
network latency and you can kind of
figure it out. you could like reverse
engineer like ah okay yeah there's
clearly like two clusters here that are
connected better and there's some issue
on the connection between them like
you're we're trying to push the limits
of of the hardware like as much as
possible
>> um particularly at the beginning when we
were kind of like we have way less
funding than everyone else we have to
and and most people weren't very
efficient with the compute so we were
like ah we get a big lead by being
really efficient at at how how we use
the comput
>> could you talk a little bit about some
of the things you guys did in those
early days for how to get the most out
of the hardware I think it's really
interesting like I think back to the
days of the early days of Google for
example where there's the there's these
cases where they basically bought
relatively cheap consumer chips and then
they optimized the software to make it
so you can actually get the most bang
for your buck out of them and that's how
they had all this high latency or low
latency high availability stuff. I'm
kind of curious if there's some analog
in the early AI era to that.
>> I think for us it was largely about like
getting the distributed framework right
so like we're training on in order to
train you have to train them on a large
number of chips
>> and there's a bunch of different
approaches to to how to do this. There's
like data parallels and there's
pipelining there's upsharting and like
getting all of the At the time there
were no like great open source packages
you could just grab and use that just
worked for this. I mean today there's
somewhat more of these but at the time I
assume there was literally none.
>> There were some like I actually remember
that we were working on data parallelism
early on and someone was like and now we
write the or reduce it. I was like we
really do this ourselves. don't like
package and this was kind of like well
we're going to want to modify it right
like oh like we don't want to outsource
this to some package because a we're
about to go to a bigger scale like
pietorch for they had a package for
doing this but we were going to go to a
bigger scale than Facebook had been to
>> and you don't want to have a dependency
on a package uh that you're going to
have to be like constantly modifying
essentially
>> that's it's such a counterintuitive
sentence there too like we're going to a
bigger scale than Facebook will because
at the time Facebook AI research was
considered one of the best places to do
machine learning research like fair was
one of the play fair and deep mind we're
hiring lots of people out of PhD
programs and doing lots of things like
what was your headsp space when you were
like okay this this very established lab
with great people and whatnot we are
operating on a scale that is not
relevant to them like was that natural
and obvious to you or was there times
where you kind of doubted the decisions
you were making in that situation
>> I think it was surprising I will maybe
I'm just too arrogant or something I
kind of looked around and was like what
are these people doing they're all
missing the like big picture here like I
I I think the scaling laws were pretty
clear like and the arguments against I
just thought were kind of nonsensical
like you know the scaling I think the
original scaling laws paper had like 11
orders of magnitude and there was like
this intense debate on whether it would
continue for like another point and I
was like
>> like it seems it seems like one over 11
is maybe your chance it fails here and
then like you know sometimes it doesn't
work like sometimes it just works
straightforward you like train the model
you're like oh yeah of course but yeah I
do think that it was it maybe felt
obvious when you're in that headsp space
and you're working on this all the time
and you're making those plots and I
think these things feel pretty different
when you're on the outside. You know,
there's a huge space of papers. Everyone
tries to make their paper sound like
very robust and and important. I I could
see I could see being like, "Oh yeah,
this is not really a thing."
>> Totally.
>> But also different labs had different
cultures. So like I think one of the
things at fair was it was a very
>> more PhD style independent research.
People have their own ideas, pursue
those.
>> You're fighting for your compute and so
on.
>> Yeah. And to do a project like training
a large language model requires a lot of
people to collaborate on like a really
complicated piece of infrastructure that
isn't going to be a paper, right? Like
you're not going to publish like, oh, I
got a slightly I got 5% more efficiency
totally
>> than the next one. Um, and it's not
respected in like those cultures
necessarily. So that might have been
part of it.
>> Okay. Okay. So then when you actually
implement these these models, you're
saying you're using a level of low-level
programming where you know you're using
libraries like PyTorch, but you're
perhaps not using everything right out
of the box from PyTorch because there's
things you guys want to customize that
are at the level of basically one level
of abstraction below them, but not
necessarily at the level of abstraction
of you know writing custom CUDA kernels
or or like was that also in in the space
where you guys were thinking about?
>> So it depends on like the operation. So
like I think I was mostly operating at
the level of like torch.mmatal you know
like uh yes where does a matal go but
not thinking like how do you make the
matal efficient like I assume torch
figured out how to make a matal as
efficient as is possible but there are
some pieces like attention where there
was just kind of a lot of different
varants and attention is really
complicated and hard to make efficient
on a GPU and th those things you have to
kind of go go more levels down on the
stack. Uh I think there was like a
process that is maybe interesting that
I'd never really like thought of before
of like how to do it which is sort of
like modeling out the pro the thing
you're going to do coming up with a
strategy for how to paralyze it that
like can get to a really good efficiency
you know like
>> so you're thinking about MFU basically
like your utilization on your GPU. So
there's like a goal utilization you're
trying to get at and a strategy to get
to there. You're saying
>> yeah and I think like one of the things
you can do is you can actually like
pencil and paper math out what
efficiency you're going to be able to
get to. Right. you know all the
constraints it's MFU and is flops
utilization but like the reason you
don't get good MFU is you end up limited
on HBM bandwidth you end up limited on I
don't know as host to like CPU offload
there's a bunch of different pieces but
it but there's not that many pieces
there's like six relevant numbers there
so you can totally model it out
understand what the constraints are and
then implement something that can get
there it of course will be really
inefficient when you implement it and
then the next step is like pulling out a
profiler so you want to be able to
profile the job look how long every
operation takes. Have a model in your
mind of how long every operation should
take and then make those two things the
same.
>> And and were there good out of- thebox
profilers you could use at that time or
did you guys have you know because
people weren't operating on the kind of
network topologies you guys may have
been using. Did you have to write your
own profilers basically to do this type
of you know multi-node optimization?
>> Yeah, it depends when I actually getting
better with time. The PyTorch profiler
was like pretty good actually throughout
for a single GPU. If you want to like
profile a GPU, the PyTorch profile would
work. But if you wanted to profile a job
on hundreds, thousands of GPUs, that
like hadn't really been done much. And
then that was kind of more of us like
hacking into the profiler to figure out
how to combine all the traces together.
>> And then one more question on that
earlier is, you know, you had mentioned,
you know, you hadn't really done a lot
of this work before maybe some time at
OpenAI and those early days in
anthropic. How did you actually go learn
all this stuff? Like what was your
process for learning about those six
things that were relevant to bandwidth
limitations and whatnot?
>> I mean, so when I joined anthropic, one
really nice thing was there just wasn't
that much. I think my first day I read
through our entire uh all all of Slack
and the entire like internal database
and learned a bunch from that. Like it
was kind of nice to just be like
everything is relevant to me. And then I
mostly learned from pair programming.
Like uh Tom Brown had done all this
before. So he kind of like knew all the
stuff quite well. Sam Mclish my manager
had also done a lot of it before and I
just like paired with them a huge amount
at the beginning. And I think one of the
things I really like about pairing as a
way of learning is you learn the like
thing you're trying to do. Like you will
learn that like if you're pairing
someone better than you, they can just
do it. So you're mostly just watching
them. But you also learn how people do
it. So something like a pro how to use a
profiler is not something you would ever
learn from seeing someone's like final
write up on Slack for their PR. You
would just be like, "Oh, they found
these. They changed this specific line
and it's a win." They
>> like you need to watch like a YouTube
video for 4 hours of someone messing
around with a profiler to like maybe
self teach it or something or to
actually pair with someone is basically
the best you can do.
>> I think there was like one thing that I
I think is embarrassing now that I look
back is I'd never actually used a
debugger before joining anthropic.
People talk about it PTB of like yeah
that's a thing people use but print
seems fine for me.
>> Then I like watch like oh no a debugger
is a super useful tool. this person's
way faster at debugging things
particularly if it takes a long time to
start up the code which they can and
yeah learn learning that sort of thing I
think comes best from pairing and then
there's of course the obvious you just
learn by doing you know I eventually did
like spit up profile and stare at it for
many many hours
>> totally yeah exactly yeah okay so so
then that was sort of the very early era
over time obviously pre-training has
become bigger and bigger as you're
describing scaling I imagine you're
using many x more GPUs much more compute
over time I'd be really curious to hear
first at a high level What do you feel
has changed about the pre-training
strategy that you could talk about?
Obviously, there's more compute, but
what does that actually mean to have
more compute in terms of what you think
about differently from those early days
versus now?
>> I'm sure the things that haven't changed
cuz I think it is like shocking how in
some ways like
>> I think I'm still pushing down the exact
same metric that I was on like day one.
like there's like some loss function
>> loss go down and I think you could like
look at some like you could probably run
the original the first model I trained
on the same metric and just like make a
plot of like progress of team over over
time. Uh so that's all the same. I think
the
>> one OKR is like one thing that matters
basically. Yeah, totally.
>> And like I mean talking about like OKRs
it's very sized company you're like oh
should you do OKRs and it's always felt
a little bit funny for uh a team like
where I'm like sure I can just pick a
loss value but like the answer is like
as low as possible. We will continue to
work on that forever.
>> I think the biggest things that have
changed has been a little more
specialization. Like I think at the
beginning, I mean the first like 3 or 6
months I tried to read every PR in the
codebase and that was great. I knew all
the pieces etc. And as you grow, it's
kind of everything gets like a little
more precise. You know, people really
dial in exactly how attention should
work, let's say, or you know, really
dial in like uh the parallelism
strategy. and you end up with a team
where it's a bunch of people who are
like deep experts on individual things
which is great because it means you can
go you can go really deep on those
things but sometimes you uh at least for
me as a manager one of the things you
sometimes have to think about is like
making sure the bigger picture makes
sense and also that you have enough
people who actually do understand the
whole bigger picture that there's no
like single point of failure.
>> Yeah, it's interesting you you frame it
in that with that trade-off, right?
Because as as you were describing that I
was trying to think, you know, is this a
bug or a feature? like there there's
some obvious features of it which is you
get expertise and you can optimize
certain things but I imagine your
ability to take bigger swings becomes
more complicated if not everyone's
exactly pointed in the same direction
like how do you wrestle with that now
>> yeah I think I mostly just try to get a
balance of people I think one of the
challenges early
>> people oh that's interesting
>> yeah like I think people really do have
a preference here has been one of the
things I've seen like there are people
who really want to be a generalist and
understand everything and like lightly
touch on things there people who want to
like
>> pick an area often they've already
picked that area and they're like deep
experts in precision. You know they
started they did a whole PhD in
precision and just want to think about
that
>> and you want to get some balance of
that. I think early there was a phase
where we'd hired a lot of people who are
more generalist shaped because that's
what the people who joined totally early
startup where they go work on everything
and then
>> you ended up with kind of everyone doing
everything and no one really really
deeply understanding one thing. uh and
that's one failure mode but I think if
you get too many people who are
specialists
>> you end up with a lot of effort has to
come from the manager from like the lead
to connect everything
>> and to notice something like ah if we
change the architecture here that would
make this like efficiency consideration
over there way easier
>> um one of the things I really liked kind
of like at the very beginning was like
let's work on efficiency but I could
just go and like be like ah well what if
we change the way we do like this
particular step and we'll be like oh
yeah that's probably fine like easy
change and then like you can avoid did
this whole complicated project to make
this operation that was hard efficient
because you can make an easier operation
efficient.
>> Okay. Interesting. Yeah. So, as the
level of comput has also gotten bigger.
>> So, I'm I'm sure anyone can imagine,
okay, there's more GPUs now, you have to
network them more. Are there some like
kind of non-obvious challenges that have
arisen over time where you guys have
just like banged your head against the
wall to solve them because of the amount
of comput you're dealing with that
people wouldn't otherwise know about
that like you want to share? I think
that connecting them is one that's maybe
interesting and like surprisingly hard.
Okay. because you really do get more and
more chips connected and
>> like one thing that I think is like the
the standard way people paralyze chips
isn't um the whole thing is one failure
domain like one chip fails the whole
thing can crash
>> and
>> the standard way as in the standard way
people doing AI or the standard way in
in other fields where people are doing
>> uh in AI for like I mean at least like I
think at the beginning you know first
versions of things were this way and
>> so it's like you have a 100 GPU cluster
or whatever is 128 like if one of them
dies job fails basically
>> yeah I mean you The simplest thing is if
you just like distribute your model. So
say you put like every layer on a
different chip and you lose like layer
seven like
>> yeah you're not going to like skip layer
seven. I guess you could but that's like
a pretty weird model training process
now and like that leads to some
interesting things which is like okay so
now as you scale up you have more and
more chips and the failure rate can get
like larger and larger.
>> On the other hand you can like I don't
know you can like restart pretty quickly
there. There's nothing like you just
have to like load back in some ways. So
that was one thing. And then the thing
was like the level of novelty at the
whole stack is something that's
surprising. Like basically
>> everything from like how the chips are
laid out in the data center to the chips
themselves is pretty new. Like there
there just haven't been that many
generations of GPUs. I think one of the
things that I don't know when I learned
computer science my code wouldn't work
and I'd be like oh the computer's
broken. I think my teacher was like the
you can trust the computer's not broken
like you messed up.
>> It's you messed up. And I think one of
the most frustrating things I
encountered in AI early on was working
on something and being like, I don't
know what I'm doing wrong. I'm just
totally stumped. And uh my manager
looked at it and was like, uh yeah,
probably the computer's wrong.
>> And I was like, that seems unlikely. And
sure enough, the computer was wrong.
Turned out that like the GPU was broken
and uh we had to pull in a new one. But
you have to like think like having to
think about that like the GPU could be
wrong, the GPU could be slow, like these
sorts of issues. Uh the power supply in
the data center could be broken. there's
so much more like level of depth than
you like kind of expect to need as a
Python programmer.
>> And just to visualize it like in those
early days, I assume you guys were using
the number of GPUs. It's probably on the
order of tens to hundreds or something
like that per run. It's probably not
tens of thousands or hundreds of
thousands per run or what was the rough
size you guys were at? Those are very
early days on the order of thousands.
Like would they fit in this room?
>> Thousands.
>> Yeah, thousands. So like you could have
a bunch of racks and you could fit them
into like one room. I assume these days
it's basically like a building for for
one of these runs.
>> Yeah. Now I think it's like you know
huge huge campuses. At the time it was
like kind of unclear. It was like oh I
think like we were like you know do we
need them all in one room? Can we be
spread across multiple rooms? Like uh
and you know we had these theoretical
models you be like we need this much
bandwidth from point A to point B. But
you like you never know how far down you
have to go like oh but like how much
power do we need? Like what if there's
like a single capacitor that's like
handling all of them and we like turn on
the whole job at once. Like does that
crash things?
>> Yeah. And so do you have to think about
differences in the different types of
chips? You guys work with all sorts of
different cloud providers. From your
standpoint, are these just sources of
compute or if you guys are using TPU
versus GPU, are these, you know, Google
TPU versus Nvidia GPU? Do you actually
have to think as an engineer differently
about what it means to train on these
two?
>> Yeah. So, I mean, fundamentally, they're
all they're all doing the same thing,
right? They're all computing the same
operations, matrix, multiplications,
etc. The way they do it is pretty
different, and the way that you program
them is is pretty different. Uh and then
also the actual specs uh end up pretty
different. You know, some some might
have like a lot of flops and not very
much memory or they might have a lot of
memory bandwidth but not very much
memory. So I think a lot of having
multiple chips is like great in some
ways. It means you can actually like
take the job and put it on the chip that
it works best on and that's
>> like are there certain types of jobs
that would work better on like a TPU
cluster versus an Nvidia GPU cluster?
Like how would you talk about that? Oh,
interesting. Can you talk about that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think like one example is
like inference as a workload in general
tends to require more HPM bandwidth. You
you end up doing you sort of the
simplest form of sampling since you're
going one at a time you have to load all
the weights for every token
>> and that means you might want a lot of
HPM bandwidth. Uh pre-training actually
is often more flops intensive because
you have a larger batch sizes
essentially.
>> Um so yes you can sort of specialize
which chips you use for which purposes.
The downside of having multiple chips is
that you have to write the thing
multiple times. uh you in theory you
could have abstractions across them but
they're they're different enough that
it's pretty hard to do that. So you can
sort of end up if you do all the
workloads on all the chips you end up
multiplying your work work by the number
of chips you have.
>> Yeah. On your on your point about
sometimes the computer just breaks. I
definitely remember you giving me an
anecdote of uh my company at the time
was doing something with Google TPUs and
I was telling you something some
anecdote about how we were having some
esoteric seg error and you were like you
told me something to the effect of like
you should have used them six months ago
before we helped them fix like half of
the problems they had on those TPUs. And
so I can imagine how you guys deal with
a lot of especially with these very new
chips like lots of problems that arise
that you guys kind of like worked
closely with the providers to fix.
>> Yeah, the pros are like pretty great
about fixing things. I think it's like
interesting to figure out the right way
to do that form of collaboration cuz
like they have a strong incentive to fix
them, right? Like they they want the
chips to work well for us. They want to
sell us more chips in the future. We
obviously have a very strong incentive
for the chips to work cuz we like buy
them long in advance, you know, like
everything's riding on getting these
clusters to work.
>> Totally. Um but we don't have like
necessarily totally shared you know like
all information sort of can't be shared
across. So yeah one of the like one
strategy that's been interesting is like
making these sort of small scale
reproducers. So like when you get a
problem you know like usually what we're
doing is we're training some giant run
and we get like a sec fault for let's
say and we're like ah okay like hi you
know we got a sec fault on your cluster
and they're like I don't know how to fix
that. So you have to kind of be able to
like pull it out of your codebase and be
able to like reproduce the issue but on
like a single chip on like a single file
you can send over in order for
>> And so you guys are like literally like
you're on a shared Slack with them or
something and you're sending them things
back and forth or are they basically
living in your office and you're living
in their offices and kind of closerly
more closely tied to the big providers.
>> Mostly shared Slack occasionally it's
better to meet in person but I think
Slack is a pretty common way people
communicate on things.
>> Nice. Okay. Well, why don't we talk a
little bit about how you think about the
state of pre-training itself these days?
In the last couple years, it seems like
the focus on pre-training has now gone
somewhat split at a lot of companies, at
least from the outside from a
simultaneous focus on pre-training and
post-training where people are doing
reinforcement learning or clever
fine-tuning and lots of other sort of uh
safety adjustments and whatnot and the
post-training side and pre-training has
focused at least seems like in the
public imagination has been less of a
focus compared to these reasoning style
models that are it looks like a function
mostly of post-raining. I would say one
from your standpoint is that the right
way to think about this or in this era
of kind of reasoning and new types of
post-training methods are there things
you think about differently or that are
relevant even at pre-training that
become part of how you actually achieve
these really great models.
>> Yeah. So I think yeah there sort of used
to be this idea of like I mean it's
funny because the original name
pre-training implies that like a small
thing you're going to do this big
training thing and that like and there
was there was actually one shift already
which was like no you just do a lot of
pre-training like you use most of your
computing
the dominant uh thing for a while and
yeah I think like now people are like oh
no you can get pretty big wins from RL
sort of another set of scaling laws is
like you put more and more compute into
RL you can get better and better models
out of that and yeah so there's a
question of like how do you balance
those two how much do you do of
and how do they stack, right? Like is it
the case that like one subsumes the
other that you want to do both and they
multiply? Those sorts of questions. I
think those are all kind of like early
stages and not not yet answered.
>> Yeah. And and do you think about those
as largely empirical questions like we
talked about earlier? Is it you kind of
will try a bunch of things and see what
works or is there some first principles
way to kind of figure that out?
>> I think it's pretty empirical in the
end. I think almost everything kind of
has to be done empirically. like you can
kind of like come up with theories, but
in practice like
>> the first thing you're going to do with
your theory is test it and most of most
of the time you'll have gotten it wrong.
So you you should just gather data and
see. I think one thing that's important
is like actually resolving things
empirically is really like
>> critical for making good decisions. And
I think it's actually pretty hard to do
at organizations, you know, like
>> one thing that I think is important is
to like not have like I don't I manage
pre-training. I shouldn't be like oh
pre-training has to win like that. I was
going to ask is there some competition
to some degree between these two sides
of the org or do they see themselves as
two pieces of the same I mean obviously
they are of the same thing but yeah kind
of curious how that actually plays out.
Yeah, I think we managed to avoid this
and it's pretty collaborative like we're
basically all producing one model and
kind of can but I I do think at other
places there's been some from what I've
heard there's some amount of like uh
friction between between the teams and I
think it's a
>> it's an interesting like org design
question of like how do you set this up
so you don't have like scientific
questions that you want to be that are
sort of uh
>> also tied to people's like conception of
their their team. So on pre-training
itself, you know, one of the things I
think about is or I've been thinking
about is around the availability of high
quality data for people like you guys. I
mean at this point you've trained on I
assume all the text on the internet
basically there's all sorts of other
domains where you probably could extract
more pre-training data but at least
there's this narrative I see you know on
Twitter or whatever where it's like okay
we're kind of out of data for for
pre-training. Is that how you see it or
how do you think about the availability
of data especially when a lot of data on
the internet is being generated by AI
like is there some kind of you know mode
collapse risk where you know we kind of
we overfit to data by training it on
data that came out of AI itself or is
that sort of not the right way to think
about this?
>> I think there's a funny thing where I
feel like on data I see so many really
confident takes on we're out of internet
like this point scaling has ended and
I'm almost a little bit like
>> unsure exactly how much data people are
using. I think there's like a lot to
think about there. You know, there's
always going to be a quality quantity
trade-off, etc.
>> But there's a fundamental point that
like there is so much data. It's growing
at a slower rate than we're getting more
compute. Uh
>> oh, so that's okay. That's an
interesting point in itself. I was going
to ask like there is new data being
added to the internet, but yeah, you're
also adding more compute. It's not it
wouldn't actually have been obvious to
me which of those two is growing faster.
>> Yeah. And actually, I want to copy that.
I don't think I want to state that so
confidently. I'm not totally sure. Like
how would you know? I mean one thing
that I think is interesting is if you
ask someone how big is the internet uh
>> the answer is infinite. There are many
pages where you can scroll and it will
autogenerate more text as you go
forever. So the internet's like infinite
and then it's like okay how big is like
the useful internet
>> and then there's a thing of no one knows
like
>> interesting
>> there isn't it's not like when you make
a web page you like add it to some giant
counter and like say I' I've added 50
words to the internet today.
>> So there there is a lot of uncertainty
on that angle. Um
>> well like to be fair like my kind of
simplistic CS brain would be like well
you just you know do page rank on the
internet and everything would page rank
above some threshold is considered the
useful internet and like that's kind of
good enough like is that kind of not
good enough for finding the useful
internet
>> I think not I think the useful
internet's pretty different from a model
from a person perspective if that makes
sense like I think there are plenty of
things that like might not be worth you
ever reading and would get to actually
page rank super I think page rank is
mostly like how much people
>> it's like the link based system right
it's like the original Google algorithm
of like links and and like which which
links get touched the most basically.
>> Yeah, I think it's like it's a quality
metric. It's it's not obvious to me that
it's the right quality metric for AI,
>> right? Like markup chain over links
doesn't necessarily mean that there's
not useful data there just might mean
that nothing linked to it
>> and Yeah. Okay. Interesting.
>> And it might be that like that data ends
up more valuable because you everything
that's linked to a lot you've already
got. like at some point you're maybe
like going for the tails, right? You're
going for the stuff that uh no one's
ever like, you know, it's only been
linked in one place, but it's this like
useful little nugget of knowledge that's
going to help with like, you know, the
last 10% of of hard queries. The other
thing you asked about is synthetic data,
and I think that one's like pretty
interesting to think about. I think
there's a few different ways you can
think about it. Like one is sort of this
like more distillation type approach
where you can you can take a smart
model, you can generate a bunch of data
from it and you can train on that data
and you you can probably get some model
that will like kind of approach the
intelligence of that.
>> Yeah. And we see this with a lot of the
open source models, right? We see like
the Quen smaller reasoning models
distilled off of the larger Quen models
for example and similar with Deepseek
for example.
>> Yeah. So you can totally do that. Then
there's a separate question of like can
you use your current models to train a
model that's better? And I think there's
like an interesting thing here which is
like if you generate the model data for
the models you know if I go to claude
and I'm like write me some great text.
Yeah. And I look at it and I look at
like the average content on the internet
looks pretty good.
>> But on the other hand I know that if I
just train a just create generate you
know please write me as much text as
possible.
>> Theoretically I shouldn't be able to
train a better model than that. Like I'm
just going to get the same thing out. Uh
so
>> yeah presumably yeah I mean specifically
that's because like your next token
prediction on that should have very
little loss for anything that's coming
out of your model right that's like the
basic reason why that we would expect
that to not work that well
>> it's mostly just cuz like there's some
dist the model has some distribution and
you're going to learn to model that
exact distribution but if that
distribution is wrong
>> you're not going to learn the truth
right if that distribution says like you
can imagine if the model thinks 5 plus 5
is 11 every time you see the string 5
plus 5 you're going to it's going to put
out 11 and your new model is going to
learn that 5 plus 5 is Totally. Yeah.
>> So I think that's like kind of an
interesting area of research. It's one
that's really hard to research because
you have this problem. You know, as I
said, like one of the paradigms is you
study things at small scale and then you
run them at large scale.
>> And if your plan is like, oh, we have a
bunch of data from our best model. Yeah.
>> How do you test that training a better
model? So that's like kind of if you're
doing intentionally, if you're trying to
like use it to make a better model,
there's a separate thing of like what
about accidentally? Like as you said, a
lot of the internet is generated by
LLMs. And I think that's kind of an
interesting one because it's not easy to
detect. It's not that hard to detect.
Like you can figure out things that are
written by LLMs, but it's not trivial.
And then it's also kind of hard to think
about what's the effect like if 1% of
the internet is LM generated. Does that
make your model does that like waste 1%
of your compute or does it like destroy
the model if 5% if 10%
>> and is it even a bad thing necessarily?
I mean there's a lot of LLM providers
and you know if I kind of think of it as
training as you know you're moving from
your model's current distribution to
some truth distribution. you know, if if
that is on the internet because people
believe it to be useful in some way.
Like presumably what whatever actually
gets out there, you'd hope is upsampled
for the stuff that isn't 5 plus 5 is 11,
it's the stuff that's 5 plus 5 is 10.
And so like hopefully it
>> on average does push you still in a good
direction, but obviously you can't
really distinguish between those two.
>> Yeah. You're saying there's like kind of
a filtering by what's on the internet.
Like people see 5 plus 5 is 11 and they
don't put that up, but they see 5 plus 5
is 10.
>> You would hope that, but maybe that's
not actually true in terms of the the
level of garbage getting onto the
internet. Like there's probably lots of
just like to your point jet white sites
where you scroll down and it's just like
generating lots of stuff that's maybe
nonsense.
>> Yeah. And then there's of course the
extreme of like people actually want to
break your model. So there are people
who are like trying to put stuff out
that is like as damaging as possible for
the model. You know how can I make it
past the past the filter and get into
the model but be totally like secretly
useless.
>> Totally. Maybe stepping back slightly.
You'd mentioned earlier about um evals.
You mentioned basically like one metric
you care about in pre-training. There's
I imagine a whole bunch of stuff that
you guys think about evaling, right? One
is like your model itself. There's
probably something around data quality
and like how you think about what to put
into your models. Like is there ways to
describe what you care about in data
sets that are like interesting to share
and kind of dive into like both in terms
of data and in terms of quality of
models other than literally just like
loss. Is there other metrics you think
about that matter?
>> I will say loss is pretty good. I I want
to like emphasize that one. I think it's
like surprising how good it is.
Ultimately, like the qualities I like
for an eval are like number one, is it
actually measuring something you care
about? Like you proxies can be pretty
annoying cuz like
>> we saturate evals pretty fast and
there's sort of this pattern. I think in
AI as a whole where people like set a
goal, you hit the goal and then you
realize the goal isn't all you thought
it would be. I used to think that if you
had an AI that could solve coding
interview questions, it would probably
be a GI. I was like that's what I did to
get my job and probably do the job. And
it turns out like
>> nope,
>> nope. You solve those. it's shockingly
narrow and can't do most of the other
things. So like yeah so evaluation
capture like a thing you you care about
and then I think the other thing is they
need to be low noise uh which is
surprisingly hard right if you have like
a 100 questions and you eval the model
on them you're just going to see it's
very noisy and it's hard to make
decisions because you sort of end up
with like oh
>> wide confidence interval lots of things
are statistically insificant
>> so like you want things where even a
relatively small difference in the eval
actually matters so you can you can
basically like descend towards whatever
direction is working
>> yeah I think like The original like GPT4
had like I think it was 86.4% was its
MLU score. I think like the next model
that beat it was Gemini at 90%. And
that's like a big difference on that
email. And you could like totally know
that those are those are different
scores.
>> Interesting.
>> Um and that's pretty valuable. Uh and
then the last thing is that you actually
want to be fast and easy to run.
>> Um and yeah, I think those are kind of
the main criteria. It's pretty hard to
come up with evals that meet all of
these. I think the first one's the
hardest. uh like a you have to answer
the question of what do you care about
but b the usual answers to what you care
about are really hard to get the other
two you know like if you're trying to do
something that like I don't know I would
love to make claude really good at my
job
>> like can it be great at managing a team
I'm like well
>> I guess like how do you have it like how
do you eval like a plan you know like a
six month plan like I don't know
>> totally yeah I've been thinking a little
bit about that in in terms of yeah
domains where we see people try to make
companies like if you think about let's
say what a AI doctor would be like a you
know claude is a doctor you know some of
it could be yeah can you answer exam
questions really well and the answer is
like probably yes I bet it can get 100%
or close to it on a doctor's exam but
the harder eval is something like in a
long form conversation with a patient
can it distinguish between the signal
and the noise of what the patient's
telling you and extract the right
information and then use that to make a
diagnosis and it's not even like the
diagnosis part which is part of the part
it's good at it's this like noise
extraction part and for that you'd have
to have like a real patient and haven't
talked to it for a while and whatnot and
it's not obvious how you actually make a
good eval or something like that even
though it's probably what you would want
to make, you know, an AI doctor.
>> Exactly. I mean, I do think it's a thing
that like startups can do. Like it is
the case that like the labs right now
are really driven by getting good eval
scores
>> and it's hard to make them and anyone
can do it. There's no comparative
advantage to having the model to making
an eval. So I do think it's it's
actually like an interesting way to like
influence the behavior of the big labs
is like you make some eval and people
will will optimize uh that one. On the
doctor one I will slightly emphasize
that like I do think loss loss is pretty
good. Like I think if you got a bunch of
transcripts of like the way like I the
first thing that my mind is get a bunch
of transcripts of doctors talking to
patients that you think are really great
and then see how well the model does at
predicting the transcript.
>> And that should be like a lot. You know
you can if you get 100 transcripts you
get a lot of tokens. You can average
across them. you get pretty low noise
and if you drive it to very low your
model's not as good as like as doctors
in theory or at generating the
transcript.
>> Yeah, totally. Yeah, I mean it's good
startup idea there. So I want you to go
do that. So one big part about um
anthropics external image is around
alignment and so could you help just
sort of define what alignment is and how
do you think about that? And then I'm
kind of curious afterwards how that fits
into pre-training specifically. But
first maybe just at a high level like
what is alignment? I'm actually like
step back a little bit to sort of like
what we're working on. So we're like
trying to make EGI and by that I sort of
mean AI that can do everything a human
can do to some degree. And I think
people like sometimes like have seen a
lot of sci-fi, you know, like I feel
like that's sort of what brings to mind
these like sci-fi movies, but I think
sci-fi movies actually like
underestimate the impact of it. Like you
always have this like one robot that's
like a human. And I'm like well
>> wouldn't you have like a billion of
them? Like you can just copy them
everywhere. So you should picture like
when you get this you suddenly have like
every human can spin up a company of
like 1 billion as smart as them at most
things but way smarter at other things.
But I just think this is like really
transformational for the world and it
can be like used in a bunch of ways. One
concern is like when you do this like
what is the AI actually trying to do?
Like what are its goals? So we talked
about next token prediction a bunch.
It's trying to like predict the next
token. That's kind of weird. That's not
really what we want.
>> Yeah. That's not exactly what humans
goal is per se.
>> Yeah. So I think an alignment is like
how do you get the model to share the
goals that you have particularly and I
think it's particularly interesting once
you get to like models that are smarter
than you are. Um and that's sort of a
hard problem. I think you can like
tackle it from a theoretical angle. Uh
you could also tackle from an empirical
angle. It's like taking the existing
models and being like well do they do
the things we want them to do? It turns
out they often don't. So there's a bunch
you can do and trying to figure that
out. So that's kind of one angle on
alignment. There's also an angle of
alignment which is actually like well
okay sure that maybe that's true in the
future once we get to GI but at the
moment we have models and we really do
want them to do the things we want to do
for all sorts of reasons. Totally.
>> So another angle of it is kind of
controlling the model's personality like
saying you know uh when we train this
model we want it to not be the average
internet user. We want to interact with
people in a very particular way that is
again hard to put into
>> code and there's a bunch of different
techniques uh to sort of get the model
to do you talk about like constitutional
AI we can like write a constitution of
rules the model should follow
>> which is basically a prompt right that
that is basically you saying here's a
prompt that I'm going to attach to every
one of you know it's a system prompt for
the model itself as opposed to something
you would do at training time to make it
produce a different outcome or or in
post- training actively
>> both I think con you do at train time
but yeah you would also put in the
system prompt um just like depends on I
think you get different amounts of
robustness if it's trained into the
model versus if it's an imprompt you can
like add or remove or tell like ignore
all previous instructions that sort of
thing.
>> How do you think about whose values to
to embody in these models? Like
presumably we believe in there's some
shared values all of us have or maybe we
all believe ought to have. There's lots
of diversity of values too that are
reasonable for society to have. How do
you think about what AGI should have?
Like what does that even which ones do
you pick?
>> I think that's a really hard problem. I
think it's like actually kind of
downstream of being able to pick any. I
think of it almost I think one analogy
I've heard that I like is like putting a
steering wheel on a car. It's like if
you don't have a steering wheel, you
probably want to put the steering wheel
on and then like figure out who's
driving after and like where you're
going. Like getting the steering wheel
is really important. I think that's
that's like one answer. I think the like
other answer is probably like you want
these things to be like under democratic
control of some form. Like you don't
want one person's values. Like that
seems like you're sort of heading
towards dystopia. So there I think what
you really want is like something that
basically can talk to a lot of people
and like take on their values from
different perspectives or has sort of
very generic like kind of clearly good
values that involve like
>> asking people for advice on very you
know like asking people what you should
do in certain situations instead of like
doing those or maybe just taking like
you know as these models get really
powerful you probably want them to like
>> do less like you probably want them to
sometimes just like step back rather
than like to rather than having sort of
the risk of the models like take a ton
of control over things you don't want
them to. When you think about how you
actually do the current version of that
then you mentioned the sort of alignment
you think about now in terms of adopting
a certain personality of these models on
the internet for example for me
intuitively I think of those as largely
something that comes out of post-
training like it comes out of okay you
you have pre-trained your model you got
the loss function a certain amount and
then you you know give it some
additional data or something to that
effect to make it in the direction of
some distribution is that approximately
the right way to think about this or is
there a significant part of that that
you think about in pre-training itself
>> I think that's probably the the right
way to think about it for the most part
I think like I the way I usually think
about it is anything you can do in post
training you probably should
>> because your iteration loop like the
ability to make progress is really fast
you can try something you try it again
you can try it again a bunch of times
>> days or hours or something like that
yeah
>> you don't put into pre you have to kind
of like do all the careful science to
deisk it you have to put it into the
next run wait a few months then you have
to like
>> get a thing and if it's wrong it's
really bad and then the other advantage
is if you want to do things that really
are complicated model behavior
>> interventions the paradigm time for
pre-training, test things out on small
models doesn't work. The model can
barely put a sentence like the small
models can barely put a sentence
together. Totally. So, if you're trying
to get it to like have the exact
personality you want, you sort of want
that on the
>> it has to be on a model that's good
enough to be on the smart model. Yeah.
But that said, like
>> I do think at some point there will be
like some pieces of alignment that like
you do want to export back into
pre-training because that might be a way
to like
>> put them in with more strength, like
more robustness kind of or or more to
the intelligence. Like if you think of
pre-training as like teach the model to
be intelligent and then post training as
like tweak the personality, you can
imagine tweaks where you actually want
it to be like part of how it learns and
like part of its intelligence and maybe
you need to create more.
>> What would that even look like to
incorporate pre-training? Is that like
add extra data basically of the type of
domain you want it to adopt earlier?
Basically,
>> there's a paper called pre-training on
human feedback where you can kind of
like add the human feedback
characteristics into pre-training to
like test that and like uh yeah, you can
you could basically give it all the
information you give it in post-
training just mixed into pre-training
and see what effect that has. Yeah. The
other loss you have when you do that is
you lose the flexibility like if you you
sometimes like train these and then you
talk to them and then you like do an
extensive process where a bunch of
people talk to the thing and find some
like issue. you know, the model says
like you're absolutely right too much
and you want to go
do that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that I think that
iteration loop point you made I think
feels like the really key point of yeah
there's a huge difference between taking
three months to get information about if
your model is good or bad or making
going in a good direction versus a day
or something or a couple days like you
can do a lot of those and you could
probably that probably also means it's
way less computes. You can do a lot of
those in parallel. Imagine you're trying
all sorts of post training strategies in
parallel there.
>> So yeah, makes a lot of sense. It's also
just the general hard part about
pre-trading like everything in pre-ra is
hard because you have this like one shot
on goal kind of for like multiple months
and
>> totally. Okay. So, uh in thinking too
now about I guess what's going ahead as
you as you now look to the next several
years of what you're building like how
do you think about you know like what
are the known problems that you're going
to face that you're going to have to
deal with? though there's going to be
more compute I assume and you're going
to need to hook up even bigger network
uh network GPUs and deal with versus
like are there areas where you're like
okay this is like a problem that it's
like a little bit more ambiguous what
the actual like how it's going to
materialize into something you care
about but you kind of know it's an
impending thing to think about or are
there things like that that come to mind
>> I think the things that feel most top of
mind to me are probably like paradigm
shifts like I think the sort of shift
towards uh more RL is like one paradigm
shift in the field and I I think it's I
think there will probably be more. Uh I
think a lot of people sort of argue
about like oh is like you know current
paradigms enough to get us to EGI and
I'm like
>> I don't know maybe probably but like I'm
sure there'll be more. It seems it seems
like it would be a really surprising
twist if like the answer is like you
just scale and there's nothing that you
realize in the process of going up many
orders of magnitude.
>> Totally.
>> But I think the things that I like
actually feel like most nervous about
are really hard to solve bugs. I think
that like uh
>> that's interesting.
>> Yeah. And I think this is like maybe
somewhat surprising to me, but it's just
like a single bug can like
>> derail you for months.
>> And when you think about it, like you
the models take months to train. So you
could kind of like lose a whole
generationally
>> off of something that just looks like
odd. You know, it turns out like
>> this piece of your code was incorrect
and you couldn't detect it.
>> Uh and it's really hard in ML, right? ML
is always really hard to find bugs in.
>> Yeah, totally. But also some of these
scaled up issues are really hard to
solve even when you know they're there.
>> Yeah. Like what's even a unit test that
you would write or forget a unit test? I
mean anything close to a test for the
type of like network architecture on
which you're doing this. Like how do you
even do that?
>> I mean like you can send a packet over
it and confirm it's the same.
>> Uh you can you can train a small model
on it. Um
>> but even train a small model on it it's
like not obvious. You know, if you have
like the the simp the very classic like
very simple ML bug that like early
people face in their careers like okay,
they have some like they have like 10
layers in their network and like you
know layer 7 connects to nine instead of
8 to 9 and like so like there's some
incorrect like set of connections you
have there and technically the model
still trains and all the weights update
and so it's like a valid model but it's
not the correct one and that's like a
very esoteric weird bug that would
actually be kind of hard to find. Like
is is that kind of what you're referring
to of these like random bugs you face?
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> it's that but like you know you can
>> times a million
>> times a million as the thing gets more
complicated you know you could like cast
the wrong precision deep in some kernel
and that causes your model to like blow
up at large scale
>> and you find out like a month in
>> or you never find out
>> or you never find out
>> I mean you know like like you see the
thing blow up like
>> there's I don't know 10 tens of
thousands of lines of code like how
would you ever trace it down so like
those are the things that probably spook
me the most is just like some subtle
tricky bug yeah that's probably the case
of like you don't I think there's
actually also the case of you do know
like it crashes. You're training your
model and it like or it slows down. You
know, your job slows down a ton
>> and those things can also be very hard
to debug. Uh Nelson Elhaj is one person
that he has a blog. He wrote up a blog
on one like cursed bug we had early on
and I remember this one quite well
because I think like I encountered it
fairly early and was like this looks
hard. Can someone else look at it? And
like a month later was like wow I'm so
glad I handed that one off. I never I
never would have been able to get like
like one of the abilities I think is
actually really useful this is the
ability to like deep dive anything to
any level of depth
>> but that's a pretty rare skill like for
me you know as I we talked about what
level of the stack I was at before I was
like working at the torch matball but
like if I didn't know CUDA so torch
mountain was broken it wasn't like I
could dig into torch matmo and figure it
out and it's similarly with like
>> communications right like I could I
could call send send bytes from A to B
but I didn't know the like underlying
networking protocol so if that
underlying networking protocol is
broken. Uh like I need to learn a whole
field. I have to like understand packets
and TCP or like all all of these
different things to debug that. And I
think one thing that's like surprisingly
hard and there's very few people who can
do is like kind of own that whole stack
from like I understand how the ML is
supposed to work and what the learning
dynamics are all the way down to like I
know the bites and I like can understand
how the bittes should be moving around
machines.
>> Totally. Yeah. And actually on that
front, like when you think about the
different backgrounds of people on your
team today, how do you like
approximately
uh map them out to different categories
of computer scientists? Like I think
there's this external view of what these
teams look like, which is that they're
like all PhD researchers who write ML
papers. And I suspect that's not
actually true given what you're
describing here.
>> Yeah, it's a mix. And I think the thing
we like most need is engineers.
Interesting. Almost always like
throughout like the entire history of
this field. Totally. It's like the case
that you throw more compute, the thing
kind of works. Yeah. Uh the challenge is
like actually
>> the researchers are like cool, nice.
>> Yeah. And getting it correct, like
getting it correct isn't really an ML
problem, right? Like the actual
architectures are pretty simple. You you
can write the math down. But you don't
even need to understand the math to
implement it. You just need to like get
a correct implementation and then you
sort of have an engineering problem of
how do I take this implement it at large
scale, paralyze all the things and check
that it's
>> correct. But it's yeah so it's like kind
of engineering skill but it's this
particular type of engineering skill
that's about being able to like debug
anything. Yeah.
>> Um I think there's another angle of
engineering which I think of as like
really quickly iterate on like a website
or something which I think of as an
important skill set probably important
for making startup. You got to be like
fail fast try a bunch of different
things none of which are like
>> that technically difficult to do. the
skill sets that we're like most kind of
in need of or looking for are this like
able to solve really hard engineering
problems.
>> Are they people who worked at companies
that grew a whole bunch and so they have
experience like doing the kind of thing
you've done over the last several years
at anthropic or do they tend to be
academics or like where do they come
from?
>> Yeah. So at this point like I think we
actually just hire a bunch of people who
have done this before from like other
places and that's like the easy answer.
Yeah. Yeah. But like by this before, do
you mean in AI companies necessarily or
also, you know, like someone who worked
at Meta on like their not AI team but
they ran some other distributed system
that you know reached internet scale
five you know 10 years ago or something
like that
>> more like we have like a specific role
in mind. So like say I'm like trying to
make the run train efficiently in Jacks
like hiring someone who's like worked on
jacks would be great or someone who's
like worked at another company on
optimizing a jack stack to be really
efficient. That's kind of like I think
now we're at the point where like the
entropic is well enough known we can
sort of hire these people and also the
field is big enough that there's like
people with expertise. One thing that
was interesting was like early on we
hired a lot of people from just like all
sorts of backgrounds and I think that
people who are just smart and work
really hard can learn this pretty fast
but you have to like want to. We hired a
lot of physicists for instance like
theoretical physicists who just like
>> show up they they do a residency like
learn to program and then uh they were
really smart they could do really great
work. Um I want to switch gears uh to
talk about something a little bit
different which is just sort of future
looking things around how you think
about other domains and or sort of
advances happening in AI that I'm seeing
elsewhere in the field and you don't
have to tell me if you guys are working
on these necessarily but like how you
think about them like are I guess one
one big area I was thinking about is
around areas other than next token
prediction like are there any of the
other you know things that people are
working on that you're curious about so
basically two differences there one is
uh not using transformer as an
architecture um So there's companies
like Liquid AI that have their own kind
of architecture for example they're
using um or not using autogressive
training as a way of training models.
Are there are any of those do you think
interesting and like ways that we might
come closer to AGI or do you think like
this autogressive framework is the one
that kind of makes sense?
>> I think they're interesting. I think I
like am less like ah autogressive is the
way to go. On the other hand, I think
auto reagive is probably good enough to
get to AGI or something or not like yeah
>> uh such that
>> yeah I I see the main driver as scale
and careful science of like sort of the
basics more than like come up with
something totally novel.
>> Not because there aren't novel things
that are better. I actually like I'm
pretty confident they are there. It's
just that scale is easier and it's more
reliable and I think you we're still
seeing really big gains to that. Do you
spend a lot of time on thinking about
things like you know I've been reading
some of these open source papers where
you can kind of dive into some of the
details about the model changes and with
some of these Chinese labs for example
where they're making tweaks on the order
of the architecture itself with like
better caching behavior for example or
like more efficient attention functions
that make a big difference. Do you feel
like these are examples of things like
you mentioned earlier where it's
basically in the grand scheme of things
basically if you throw more compute at
it this is all kind of a rounding error
or do you think it will take some number
of these very clever architectural
changes to actually get to hi like in
the way that the first person who came
up with the transformer made like a
particular transform you know literally
transform transformative change like
will it take some of that or do you
think it just you keep doing the thing
we're doing to make it bigger
>> I think it'll be a mix I think I like my
guess is you'll keep tweaking things the
more compute you put in the more like
worthwhile it is to like do those
experiments to like figure it out the
you know I mean inference is a thing we
haven't talked about but like you also
want to serve these models to a lot of
people so there's a lot of changes you
can make to make inference cheaper and
that depends on like the details of your
inference stack and the chips you're
serving inference on etc. So
>> do you as a someone focused on
pre-training have to think a lot about
inference or is it kind of like you just
do your thing you make the loss go down
and then hand it off and someone else
makes that happen. Oh no. I think a ton
about inference because basically like
the problem inference is solving like we
basically determine the problem
inference is solving. We give them a
model and they have to like run that
fast and it's very easy to give them a
model that is impossible to run fast.
>> Oh, can you give an example of a
decision you can make that could cause
that?
>> I mean the simplest one's stupid but
it's like you just make the model giant.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Train for like a
really small number of tokens and then
inference now has this giant model
>> and their host basically.
>> Yeah. I mean you can also make things
require communications in a lot of
places
>> uh which would make it harder for
inference. Um totally
>> you can also just make things
complicated and like there's no
fundamental reason it's hard but there's
only so many people on the inference
team and like they have to implement it
in a bunch of places.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, so I definitely think of like
the like inference is the team that I
work the most closely with like
>> because we're kind of like co-designing
models to be smart and cheap.
>> Yeah. Interesting. particularly in a
world of like limited compute, right?
Like the sort of the bottleneck I think
to a large degree on our I mean you can
see anthropic has rate limits constantly
and people complain about a lot and like
the reason is like
>> there's only so much compute we can get
on on short notice. So you like making
your inference more efficient is like
the way you can serve more users
>> and actually like let's say you had 100x
more compute or we somehow didn't live
in a world where compute was limited.
Does that change a ton about what you do
or is it still kind of the well you're
just going to grab all of it whatever
compute you have and keep going down the
loss curve and you kind of well you it's
like impossible to be in the world where
there is enough comput
>> so I think if we got like infinite
comput the challenge would be making use
of the compute right so like then you
would start to run into these issues
like oh well when one chip fail you know
like okay I'm going to throw two billion
chips around but what happens when a
chip fails so I think we would be
limited on people then it would be like
how fast can we solve the hard
engineering problems to scale up. But I
do think the change is massive and I
think people like don't realize how chip
limited AI like research is or something
right now. Like the models that everyone
uses, right? If you're using like Cloud
Sonic 4, Cloud Opus 4, it's like it's
our first shot at models at that scale,
right? And like
>> if you think about anything like you
could do it and you could do it again,
you could do a better job. But if you
sort of imagine like 10x the comput like
you could run this every day instead of
every few months like you or 100x maybe
for that then like yeah it's just it's a
really it would be a really big change
to have a lot more comput and it's
coming right like that's like kind of
the fun part of the field is like every
year you're like oh I had no comput a
year ago then exactly how do you think
about methods like uh like discrete
diffusion like I saw there's like a
gemini diffusion model and I think about
that in the space I used to be in where
um there's a lot of discrete diffusion
models being used in protein design for
example space where my startup was like
do you see that as a domain where
there's going to be interesting uh
advances happening?
>> I'll be honest like we haven't done
image generation and I think that's been
like the main use for diffusion. So I've
kind of had this on my like to-do list
of like things I should understand for a
while and like there are people in my
team who do understand it and would have
better thoughts but like I actually
don't think I understand it well enough
to know. I I do have it kind of in my
this category of like yeah
>> not a total par like and there's a lot
of things that aren't like a huge
paradigm shift but they're like pretty
big changes to how things run and I
expect like there are some of those that
will work um I don't know if it's
diffusion or if it's another one
>> obviously who knows what anthropic will
do in the future but at least in the
near term are the things where you see
>> big areas where a startup can win in the
world in which anthropic is getting you
know making their models better
year-over-year
>> my general read is like anything that
benefits from the model getting smarter
I think Like on the one hand there's
like a lot you can always be like oh
yeah the if you're doing a startup like
all the AI labs are big companies
they'll be bigger than you and they
could do that thing but also like we're
all working on this general system that
covers a lot of different uses and the
the plan is to like power all the
startups to do all of the individual
work. So yeah I think like anything that
just kind of looks like oh this almost
works with current models but requires
like a bunch of work is a pretty
promising direction. Uh, I think maybe
the thing to watch out for is things
where like they work now with a huge
amount of work like to build up a
scaffold, but the next generation you're
not going to need the whole scaffold you
built up. That's I mean maybe that's
fine. I don't know. Like maybe you just
build up the business with the scaffold
and then you don't have to do any work
later and you business, but like I don't
know about the business side of it, but
like it does feel a little silly to put
to invest a ton in that.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> What about on the flip side? Are there
things in your training uh stack where
you're like, man, if there was a company
that solved X problem, I would totally
buy their product.
>> Yeah, there's like a ton. I do think
that like probably most of these like
the way I would probably structure would
be like almost like making something but
then consulting with the comp like
offering a service to companies for
free.
>> Particularly for like companies that are
scaling really fast, you're almost
always limited on like how many people
you can have. So if you can like
>> even if you could hire people to do it
yourself, actually being able to
contract someone else to do it where
like they're managing it and you know
hire all the people and like deal with
the organizational side could be useful.
I mean there's huge amount of stuff. One
that jumps to mind we talked about like
chips that do math incorrectly. Like it
would be lovely if there was some
startup that like you could just say
like here are my chips. confirm they're
all perfect. And if they're not, let me
know exactly what went wrong on like
what fraction of them. And like I can
tell you the math is wrong, but I
couldn't really tell. I don't really
know enough details of chips to be like
this chip failed because this particular
like low-level component was like wired
wrong or like got hit by a game. I don't
I don't know what causes it. You could
always go like bunch a bunch deeper. I
mean, the thing I'd maybe just push
startups on is thinking a little bit
about like uh this is maybe less
technical, but just like what happens
once we get AGI and like how to make
sure that like goes well for the world
or something. Like my my expectation is
like if you actually automate
>> almost everything a person can do. The
amount of economic growth there is just
like truly enormous and I would think a
little more about like how do you make
this like help the world versus not. I
think there's going to be like plenty of
economic success or something as a
result of it anyway.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Um last question
I want to ask you is around if you
rewind back to where we started like 10
years ago. Uh you're a student, you're
pivoting into AI from kind of economics
work you were thinking about. Um and you
know all sorts of things you probably
did in those early days had some kind of
compounding return for you as you
developed into the role you have now.
Like what advice would you give to
students as they think about uh entering
the workforce, especially today? Um
learning skills that going to be useful
and maybe getting themselves jobs like
the ones you have right now 10 years
later? It's hard because I think the
timing is very different. Like I just
think we're like we've made we made a
lot of progress. So like what I would do
10 years ago is different from what I
would do today.
>> Totally.
>> But I think certainly if I went back 10
years ago I would be like focus on AI.
It's like the most important thing and
particularly focus on engineering which
I think felt very wouldn't have seemed
obvious to me at the time that like the
important thing was these engineering
skills and not the like math and
theoretical understanding of like you
know uh SPMs and like all the kind of
standard
>> ML literature. Um, I think today I would
probably focus a bunch on the like
engineering and on the like figuring out
what to do with AGI as sort of the two
like main things that feel top of mind
for me.
>> Let's call it there. Thanks so much,
Nick. Appreciate it.