Title: Zepto: How Two 17-Year-Olds Built India's Largest Seller Of Fruits and Vegetables
Video ID: YKZCU0ynEbs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKZCU0ynEbs
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-05-19T14:00:50Z
Duration: PT28M58S
Views: 67748
Likes: 2098
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 892

Description:
Aadit Palicha is the co-founder and CEO of Zepto, one of India's largest quick-commerce grocery platforms. What began as a WhatsApp group delivering groceries to neighbors in Mumbai during COVID has grown into a company employing over 200,000 people, processing millions of deliveries per day and operating one of India's largest fruits and vegetables supply chains — all built around a 10-minute delivery model powered by a network of dark stores.

At Startup School India, Aadit sat down with YC's 

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

If you remove all constraints and you
just remove all the laws of physics and
you just think from first principles,
what's the most extreme positive
customer experience you can give and you
start from there and then you work
backwards from how can I make that
possible.
So audit everyone in this room knows
Zepto almost everyone uses the product
many of them probably every day. I don't
know how many people know the true story
of how Zeppto got started. So I thought
we'd start there. How did you end up
starting this incredible company?
>> Well, firstly, you know, Jared, thanks
for having me and it's a privilege to be
here at YC Startup School. I mean, you
know, we started our journey, Keville
and I watching Startup School videos in
my bedroom and at home and so it's it's
a wonderful privilege to be here. I
think you know the the thought process
of starting this company at the
beginning was you know we didn't really
start with the intention of building a
company as you know right we were you
know two kids
>> how how old were you
>> we started I think working on it when we
were 17 right so uh we
KB and I loved building when we were
kids you know we've been friends for
quite some time and you know we said wow
around 15 16 we said you know people in
Silicon Valley are doing this for a
living building out cool products for a
living. So why don't we explore doing
that? And so you know when we were 17 we
applied to study in California. We were
lucky enough to get into a a good school
there. And then co happened and once co
happened we found ourselves back in
Mumbai uh which is where we're
originally from. And at that point you
know we really had nothing to do because
we were not in person in Silicon Valley
which is where we wanted to be and so we
said there's no point doing co college
online learning. And so we took a year
off from college and said, "Let's just
work on a project." And that's how it
started. And I think really the big
problem at the time, first wave of the
pandemic was people couldn't get
groceries in their regular
neighborhoods, right? Like the the small
mom and pop stores had, you know, issues
with labor. The big guys that were
delivering next day, you know, were all
backlogged. And so we just started a a
WhatsApp group chat where we used to
deliver for our neighbors in Mumbai. And
that slowly kept evolving until we made
it into an app. And the first rendition
of the app was called Kiranakart. And
then it kept going from there. And then
that's when we were we stumbled onto YC.
So,
>> and I remember the first time I met you,
Audit. This is a story that I don't
think has been told very often.
>> Um, you were just about to start as an
undergraduate at Stanford. You'd gotten
into Stanford, amazing school, and you
were going to leave India, go to Palo
Alto, and start at Stanford. This is
just a couple months probably before you
really um
>> two three months before metriculation.
>> Yeah. Like two or three months before
you started the company that was then
originally called Coranocart. And I
remember you asked me basically should I
go to Stanford or should I drop out and
start this company
>> maybe for anyone in this room who's
maybe thinking through sort of a similar
sort of question in their own minds. How
did you think about it? How did you end
up deciding to start Zeppto rather than
going to Stanford?
>> Yeah. That's true, Jared. I think and by
the way, for everyone here, you know,
Jared has been pretty instrumental in
getting us off the ground. He was our
group partner on YC and you know, he's
been
>> really the only thing I did was
convinced him to not go to Stanford.
Everything else he's done.
>> No, no, he did a lot more than that.
But, uh, but yeah, I mean, I think in
the early days, you know, really a lot
of people ask me this question that you
dropped out of college, should I drop
out of college and do the same thing? I
mean, actually, I have a less heroic
answer, which is that we we thought of
it a little bit more tactfully, right?
where we said okay obviously it's a risk
because going to college is a good
opportunity etc etc so I think we took a
year and in that period of the year you
know we did a lot of a lot of work to be
able to get to some level of PMF I mean
we got to maybe a very early sign of PMF
I think 8 n months into the journey and
that's when we started saying okay
there's retention there's compounding in
the business and only up until we got to
the point where we started doing about
10,000 orders per day I remember that
point but that's when we said okay this
is a real business and this is a once in
a lifetime opportunity and we should go
for it, right? So we I think we took our
time before we took the big leap, right?
Um and so that's usually what I tell
folks is that you know you should have
some product market fit. You should have
a real product that's working and you
you shouldn't take the risk before you
have the proof of concept of something
that's actually working and to in our
case we got to like a decent like 60 70
cr revenue run rate or GMV run scale
before we said wow we should go for this
business opportunity and also we were
lucky enough to get you know investor
interest at that point when we got to
that scale so we said okay we've got a
term sheet we've got a business that's
working customers are liking it we
should go for it
>> one thing that's interesting to me about
the Zeppto story that I think might lead
to a good lesson for everyone in this
room is when you started Coranocart
originally grocery delivery was not like
some new idea in India there were
already what two or three billion dollar
companies doing grocery delivery in
India at huge scale what made you think
so what I'm just going to do this anyway
what made you feel like it was worth
launching something that competed with
them I feel like a lot of people in this
room would look at a market like that
and say like it's too late I missed it
>> no I think it's fair so I think you know
we started this company in 2020 or we
started working on it in 2020 and at
that point there were you know multiple
different models that existed in this
space of grocery delivery because
grocery as an opportunity in India to
digitize grocery to build like an
organized player is a very large
opportunity and people have been chasing
it not just for 3 four years they've
been chasing it for 20 years you know
even in the offline world right and so
there were some large players out there
nobody really had the model that we were
doing there were some players that were
doing sort of you know doorstep delivery
from you know other stores there were
some players that were doing next day
delivery to delivery but we didn't
really think about it as oh we'll try a
different model that was not really the
thought process what gave us conviction
that we should do it was just bottoms up
like when we started that WhatsApp group
in Anderi in Mumbai and most of the
deliveries Keville and I used to do
ourselves and in that process we would
talk to a lot of customers at their
doorstep organically we would give them
a pack of groceries and say hey you have
2 minutes to chat and then we would talk
to them and say okay why did you use us
why don't you use ABC or why don't you
just do it yourself and that's when we
learned a lot that when you spoke to the
end customer, they were not satisfied.
There was no real compelling player or
compelling model that really was hitting
their needs including us at that time by
the way. So that first rendition of
Kirano card we had not nailed the
product market fit and so customers had
they said okay you don't have all the
selection your pricing is too high the
delivery times are not in our control at
that point and so we would just speak to
customers and say okay what do customers
really care about at the end of the day
they care about speed quality selection
and price right and so how do we push
the bar on all four of those things and
that's when we started for the first
time you know trying to do these mini
warehouses or mini dark stores and
that's when the customer experience
significantly improved and that's when
we saw product market fit.
>> Yeah, let's let's talk about this
because a lot of people probably don't
know that Zeppto is really a pivot from
what you started with which even had a
different name. You even like changed
the name of the company when you when
when you changed the model. So all
during YC you were working on this thing
called Coronicart. Maybe maybe explain
to people what the original idea was.
>> For sure. So look, I think from our lens
like I mentioned, we we never started
with a thought process of building a
company. We started from a thought
process of just solving a problem for
like the 30 aunties in our neighborhood,
right? And that's why we started
initially with the easiest solution was
just a WhatsApp group chat where we used
to deliver from existing stores, right?
And so we would just go around the
neighborhood, deliver to people's doors
when they asked us for it and we would
pick it up locally, right? But then
eventually we made this meaningful pivot
I think early 2021 where we said look if
you're just doing doorstep delivery from
like a mom and pop shop to the customer
you've got no control on the customer
experience no control on the delivery
times you can't really and you can't
solve the problems that people were
telling us at their doorstep. So that's
when you know KB and I basically you
know picked up a a bunch of stock and we
put it into his his uh apartment and
then that was the first mini warehouse
in a way. Oh, your co-founder's
apartment was the first dark store.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it was. It was. So, we
started from there and but what we
noticed is that okay, in this like small
area where we could, you know, control
the customer experience, the response
was phenomenal, right? And that's when
we took it to the next level where we
said, okay, let's try to do like a mini
cardboard version of a warehouse. And we
did that in in Juu if you're familiar
with that. And then finally, we actually
launched a proper warehouse. And then we
saw the the pivot point for us was that
controlling the customer experience you
know we thought okay you improve the
delivery times incrementally you improve
this the speed inc the quality
incrementally the selection
incrementally the pricing incrementally
there'll be like a little bit of an
improvement here or there but we saw 10x
like the one neighborhood where we were
doing a dark store versus all the other
neighborhoods that we were doing just
mom and pop shop delivery the one area
where we were doing it from a dark store
had three four times the volume of the
rest of the city for us and so we said
wow there's really like a lot of
customer demand here and So that's when
we made the pivot saying that we need to
control the customer experience and so
that's when we started going into these
mini warehouses. Uh so that was a
thought process and at that time the
idea of doing these like mini warehouses
and delivering to people's doorstep at
least back then obviously now it's
fairly common place but back then didn't
really exist. So we didn't come in from
a lens saying okay you know XYZ player
is doing it like this I'm going to try
doing it like this or this guy's going
to do it like this and I'll do it like
this and we'll see. It was more like
okay customer is not satisfied and I
would just we would just obsess over
what can we do physically to get that
customer satisfaction up and then that
led us to this mini warehouse model
which by the way when we started a lot
of people said oh no this is not the
right way to do it this not the right
way to do it but the customer was
telling us that yes this makes sense but
all the pundits were not in a way
>> when people were telling you that it was
the wrong move to build your own dark
stores what were their reasons
>> a lot of people were building I mean in
our business people were building the
business initially backwards from a
supply chain or from financial goals
right which obviously you know makes
sense to do and that's what we do
dayto-day but really the starting point
of any business has to be the customer
so what we said is so what people were
saying is that okay this is the model
that's viable and this is what I'm going
to give to the customer this is the best
that I can do and this is what the
customer is going to get we started from
the opposite we said what is the most
extreme that the customer wants and
that's why this concept of 10-minute
delivery right
>> which is a crazy idea at the time. I
mean 10 minutes still blows my mind like
somehow I order something in Zeppto and
like 10 minutes later it shows up
>> and you know by the way the the thought
process I remember K and I discuss this
we had that similar discussion that you
know Brian Chesky Airbnb uh concept
where he said five star sevenstar I
remember that so basically it was about
where can you just if you remove all
constraints and you just remove all the
laws of physics and you just think from
first principles what's the most extreme
positive customer experience you can
give like what's the most unbelievable
customer experience you can give and you
start from there and then you work
backwards from how can I make that
possible at scale that is a better way
from starting saying that what is
possible for me that's the best I'm
going to give the customer but what we
realized is that if you nail the
customer experience you get so many
other advantages in the business that
are impossible to forecast for example
right because we nailed the customer
experience of 10-minute delivery doing
the right selection doing the right
pricing and doing this mini warehouse
model we got far more throughput and far
more volume in our warehouses than
people expected And when you get to such
a high volume in the same mini
warehouse, all your costs become much
lower by nature, right? Without going
into too many specifics. And so that was
something that people didn't imagine
because they didn't imagine that much
demand, right? And so when people are
pulling the product from your hand
instead of you trying to shove it down
their throat, right? Then magical things
happen even on the business side. So at
the end of the day, I think it's
impossible to build a financially
viable, profitable business without
customer delight. Customer delight is
where financial value starts. Starts
with the customer.
>> One of the things that I remember that
stood out about you audit during YC was
that you were constantly trying things
and constantly experimenting. Like this
is the first time, this is the first
time that I heard the story that the
first dark store was literally your
co-founder's apartment. And I feel like
that anecdote really encapsulates the
way that you iterated on Zeppto, which
is instead of having some like grand
strategy from the beginning, you just
like started with this WhatsApp group,
you started like delivering groceries
when things didn't go exactly according
to plan, you like iterated on the like
exact design of like how how you did it
and you just kept like tweaking the
model and going out there. You did a lot
of deliveries yourself. You were super
on the ground understanding what was
happening. I guess my question is
>> how did you know to build a startup in
that way? Was it just instinctive to you
that that was the right thing to do?
>> No, I may give you more credit than is
due. I think Jared is also skipping over
all the failures, right? I think at some
point in the batch, I remember all our
group companies, we were like the worst
or something. We were like not able to
get any of the tasks done. I remember
this very vividly. But uh but yeah, I
mean I think the the you know we we
didn't really have like you mentioned a
grand insight or strategy in a way you
know like Justin Khan says right the
naivity of knowing how to build a
company was a big advantage like we were
extremely young and naive and the
advantage of being young and naive is
that you don't know how difficult it
actually is right so and you don't know
all the complex ways that people have
tried and failed before the only thing
that was real in front of us was us and
like the neighborhood neighbor about
down the road that wanted her groceries,
right? And so when when you just cut out
all the noise and in a way being in co
locked in a room, it cut out all the
noise of startups and VCs and this is
the way to do it and you know read this
blog post. It was just like this person
just doesn't like us and we would just
sit and talk between ourselves of why
doesn't she order from us, why does he
order from us, why can't we get
everybody to order from us, right? And
so it was that like singular focus on
this like 30 40 customers at the very
beginning that was super super
advantageous, right? because it was just
a no noise in our life and so if the
only goal that we had was how do we get
the 30 people around us to order from us
and that was how all the questions
started so it was nothing else about VC
wants this funding and this guy wants
this and you know this blog post told us
to do that all was scrapped
>> that that's super powerful I I I don't
know if folks in this room know but uh
one of the like iconic pieces of YC
advice is instead of trying to get
thousands of users just try to make a
hundred users really love your product.
Um, and it sounds like that's exactly
how you built Zeppto is you just focused
on like those 100 users and that's how
you ended up knowing that Corona wasn't
the right model and you have to go to
Zeppto is because like those 100 users
just weren't happy enough with Coronart.
Yeah.
>> Exactly. Ex. And so that was the
thinking and in a way obviously you know
YC also kept us accountable but I think
the big thing like you mentioned is we
were able to just create this insulated
environment where there was only us and
the customer and then there was nowhere
to hide. If a customer was not happy
there, it was right in front of our
face, right? And so that was a big
advantage.
>> Most people's experience with Zeppto as
a consumer is probably like like the app
experience is like like a a digital
product. I bet a lot of people here
don't realize that you don't really see
Zeppto fundamentally as like a soft as
like a a consumer like app company. You
see it as a logistics and supply chain
and like traditional retail company.
Could you talk about the um incredible
supply chain and infrastructure that
makes it possible for you to deliver uh
one bottle of Coke to somebody in 10
minutes? No,
>> absolutely. So, I mean that we we we say
this to each other all the time, right?
If you remove all the software and the
tech and the dark stores, I'll use a bit
of Hindi, but if you remove all the
software and the tech and the dark
stores, fundamentally we're an ATA dal
travel company. You know, we sell Subji
and Dud, right? We basically sell
day-to-day groceries to the customer.
And if you still talk to the customer
and we still talk to the customer every
day, the customer is like you're my arta
where I get my art from, where I get my
rice from. They don't think of us as
some grand, you know, software company
and technology company, right? And so
that that clarity is helpful. Uh and
that's what we focused on. So just to go
into Jared's point, so there's there's a
lot of depth beyond this just the front
end of the application. Like obviously
people aren't aware of the dark stores
but even within the dark stores there
are hundreds of minute design decisions
from the way that you design the
selection the way that you orient the
store the infrastructure that you build
there the way that you build
replenishment algorithms the way that
you build you know the trucking on the
back end how you manage the tasks you
know today thanks to Y cominator you
know we employ north of 200,000 people
right and so how to manage those people
efficiently at scale including delivery
partners pickers packers truck drivers.
So there's a lot of you know efficiency
that goes in there including the backend
supply chain and you know we've talked
about it publicly as well where you know
we've built out industrial grade
automation on the backend supply chain.
So if we are getting you know products
from a uni lever or a proctor and gamble
or a Coca-Cola how can we move that
through our supply chain with the least
amount of people and keep shipping it to
the dark stores as fast as possible
right so it's at the end of the day a
logistics company there's a lot of
hardware robotics actually there's a
decent part of our tech team now works
on hardware right and some of the like
you know the videos that we saw today
and so there's a good amount of work
that we're doing on the back end and the
thought process there is also not just
for the function of again right it
starts from the customer why am I doing
all of this, I'm doing all of the depth
in the supply chain only because every
rupee of cost you save across the supply
chain by becoming more efficient is a
rupee you've saved the customer or a
rupee that you can invest in better
selection, better delivery times etc.
And the last thing that I'll mention
also for us the biggest culmination of
this is our fruits and vegetable supply
chain. uh without going too many
specifics but we run one of India's
largest or you know at this point the
largest fruits and vegetable supply
chain uh in the country and we source
you know millions of units per week from
farmers across the country everybody
from Mahabaleshwar for strawberries or
let's say outskirts of Karnataka if you
outskirts of Bangalore and cocot or
beyond
>> can you give people a sense of the scale
that you're operating Zeppto I mean the
numbers are just jaw-dropping I just
learned today that audit at 23 years old
is the largest seller of fruits and
vegetables in all of India
on the platform. on the platform. Yeah.
No, so I mean we have like a a decent
amount like Jad mentioned on the Zeppto
platform. There's millions of units per
day of fruits and vegetables that we
sell and of course all sorts of other
products. But yeah, I mean we're at a
point where today we've got a customer
base, you know, in the crows, right, of
monthly transacting users. There are
millions of people that order every day
and we do millions of deliveries per
day. Um and we've scaled to I mean you
know publicly available information
right we've scaled to you know tens of
thousands of crores of topline or
billions of dollars right and so from
our lens uh obviously long way to go
candidly I think that there is uh I mean
we're in the grocery market and there's
a huge amount of scope to run this up
and there's a lot of work that we still
want to do on squeezing out more and
more efficiency from the supply chain
squeezing out more efficiency on you
know the consumer part of the business I
think we discussed today as well. But we
also have a meaningful advertising
business on the app itself where the top
brands in the country like Coca-Cola or
Pepsi or Nestle bid on search keywords.
So we're doing, you know, hundreds of
millions of ARR in ad revenue today. So
there's so many big opportunities in the
business and right now we're growing
quite fast and so we think that we still
have a few more years of high growth and
high amounts of operating leverage and
efficiency that we can unlock and new
big things like for example this ads
business you know was very small 2 years
ago or inconsequential and now it's
become a very big part of our journey.
So there's a long way to go but uh you
know we we we're still in day one.
>> Can you talk about the long-term vision
of Zeppto? I think a lot of people maybe
haven't really thought about what Zeppto
could become in the future and I think
it'd be really interesting to hear what
you imagine it could be in 10 or 20
years.
>> Yeah. So the way that we the way that we
look at it is we want to build an urban
grocery platform and we want to build
urban grocery infrastructure for the
country. If you look at it, every you
know major country in the world has
their own form of grocery
infrastructure, right? Or you know
logistics and supply chain and retail
infrastructure for day-to-day goods,
right? People in the US or people in
Europe are buying much more
sophisticatedly, right? Their costs are
much lower. The sophistication they have
on quality control is better. It's much
more organized, right? We basically
think of ourselves as an organizing
force in the grocery supply chain in the
country. Obviously we deliver a
delightful experience to customers but
the the big vision is I guess over the
next four five years to be a large
groceryer in the country and do that in
the top 40 50 cities and if we can do
that then I think we can build India's
like homegrown version of Amazon or any
other e-commerce platform right we want
to build you know an e-commerce platform
that's unique to India and if you look
at the key nobody's really been able to
do this hyper local e-commerce format
had anywhere in the world, right? We
think it works beautifully in India. We
think it's the right model for India.
Um, and so if we crack it, then we can
build a very large outcome and hopefully
also play a part in, you know, growing
other businesses along with us. I think
one of the other key things that I'll
mention is that, you know, Zeppto and
all these other quickcommerce platforms,
not just Zeppto, have become a platform
for a lot of startups to build their own
consumer brands, right? And so, you
know, eventually down the road, if we
can create 10 more large outcomes in
day-to-day consumer brands, maybe
someone here will start a consumer
brand. Uh, why not? You know, that
happened in the US 40 years ago with a
Walmart or a Costco and all these other
players. We are still at the beginning
of that journey. So, we want to be part
of that journey. The last thing I'll
mention, of course, is the people that
we employ on the ground. I think if we
keep scaling this business, we keep
creating more employment on the ground
and we think it's a wonderful thing. I I
I'll thank you Jared here. I told Jared
that you know everybody wants to meet Y
Combinator because they think of YC as a
very good positive force. A lot of
people have told me that all these
investors are creating lots of jobs in
the country and we it's true you know.
So so yeah we're we're here creating
employment helping build a small part of
India's infrastructure. So that's our
thought process.
Um so next I want to talk a bit about
AI. So even though Zepto got started
before the whole AI boom, you guys are
now really deep into implementing AI at
Zeppto and really on the cutting edge of
like what companies here are are are
doing. You you were telling me this
morning about all the ways that you've
transformed your internal operations
with AI. Can you talk about like what's
how how you guys are using AI, how it's
changed things for you?
>> Yeah, I mean I think so there are two
parts of it. Obviously there's the
customer side and there's a supply chain
side. And so from our lens, there's a
lot of work that we've done on this on
the supply chain side. So for example,
we we showed Jared today, one of our
dark stores and we're basically walking
through how it used to take a team of
people, you know, days to manually
forecast the entire supply chain. But
now we've built out a machine learning
algorithm that runs, you know, millions
of units per day and doing forecasts
without any humans in the loop. And what
that's made is that that's made my
supply chain more agile. I'm able to
dispatch faster. I'm able to do more
throughput in the same place because my
forecast accuracy is so high and it's
I'm able to forecast much faster. So
it's purely as a function of a lot of
work we've done on the machine learning
side on the consumer side. One of the
big benefits for us has been the ads
business. So we've seen a big bump in
ads over the past 2 years because a lot
of products that we're building for our
brands are AIEL. So let's say on the
search platform for example there are
lots of things where we're giving people
the opportunity to generate keywords or
we give them sort of we've built out a
model that helps you accurately predict
what keyword is going to give you the
best return on ad spend. And so there's
a lot of work that we've done there but
we've seen huge results because once
brands see that their marketing dollars
are getting put to use in the most
optimal way and they can see that
objectively in their advertising
efficiency spends like return on ad
spend as we call it in the industry then
it's been a huge bump in advertising
revenue. So building out the search
stack of advertising with Genaii tools
has been massive. And the last thing
that I'll tell you is internally
internally we've been able to achieve a
lot more with less headcounts like in
our corporate office hopefully some of
you you know have interacted with our
team but you know in our corporate
office we've been able to do a lot more
with the same headcount. You know the
engineering team that we've had I mean
obviously everyone says this but I see
this on the ground and it's still
mind-blowing to me. The amount that
we're able to build with such a smaller
team is crazy. Especially like all the
SAS bills that we used to have. I was
saying Jared this, you know, I can say
it publicly. We've cut almost all our
software spends to zero. We've cut, you
know, a lot of our managed services
spends. We've been able to reduce a lot
of inefficiencies and manual tasks in
the system, right? That were happening
with people. We've been able to automate
it now. And so my overall organization,
if you walk into the Zeppto office,
there's so many more tools that are
automated and there's no outsource tools
at all. So we're saving like literally
hundreds I mean huge amounts of costs on
that on that side. So it's great for us.
>> What is the software team like at
Zeppto? And are you hiring?
>> Yeah, we've got about 500 or so
engineers and another 150 people on data
science, analytics,
uh product management, designers, etc.
So, you know, we're very much hiring
and, you know, actively in the market
always for the best talent. So, if
anyone here is is keen, let us know. You
know, we're still very much at the
beginning of the journey. We consider
ourselves an early stage startup. So,
we're not a big old slow company. So, if
you're excited to come into a startup
environment, please do join.
Okay. And we're we're running out of
time, but my my last question for you,
Audit, is in order to run this company,
you had to master an incredible number
of skills. And you had to do it at a
very young age. I mean, you started this
thing at 17, and now you're running like
a massive cold storage supply chain.
You've got trucks and warehouses and
physical sorting machines and 250,000
employees you have to manage. Um, how
did you keep upgrading yourself as a
person and a founder? keep learning
these skills so that you could like do
this incredible work at such a young
age.
>> Again, you know, very, you know, there's
a that's a very generous way of looking
at it. I tell the team this all the time
that it's good that we're a Y Com
because I've got exposure to what's
happening in Silicon Valley and after
everything we've done, we feel like
peanuts compared to what people in the
US have done sometimes, right? You know,
like Uber or Door Dash or Airbnb. So, a
long way to go still. But I think the
the big thing for us has been that I
mean both Kavali and I have just been
incredibly lucky with the people that
we've been able to surround ourselves
with since the earliest stage and you
know without exaggeration since the
group partners that we had with you and
Tim and and Seri at Y cominator um but
every stage of the journey we've just
been lucky to have incredible people
that have been surround that have
surrounded us that we've learned from
and most of them most of that learning
has come from our management team. So I
think what the the luckiest that we've
been is that we've been able to find a
team whether it's our CFO, our chief
operating officer you met today, our
CTO, you know, our head of growth and
marketing, our chief business officer,
our, you know, leader in the product
function. All of these people who've got
decades of experience but are still
hungry and believed in the vision very
early on despite being much more senior
in tenure than us. Having them join
early in the journey and learning from
them was the biggest one. So I think we
woke up every morning and we said, you
know, if I'm working shoulderto-shoulder
with this exceptional leader in finance
and this exceptional leader in
operations, then I need to pull pull up
my boots, right? And I have to learn
from them. So you just have to be you
just have to surround yourself with
people that are smarter than you and
just keep learning from them and keep
asking and even today like with our
finance team for example, I ask the most
basic questions. How does accounting
policy work or the ops team I ask them
how does this hardware software work?
You know, we also have looked very
stupid a lot internally, but then that's
been good because we shamelessly ask
questions. We shamelessly learn and then
you end up aggregating information from
a lot of people and then you grow. So
surround yourself with people that are
smarter than you and learn from them
shamelessly as as simple as that.
Adit I and everyone in this room is in
awe of what you've accomplished. Adapell
to everyone.