Title: Emergent: How Six Months of Tinkering Led To A $100M ARR Company
Video ID: yyXCQHX55N4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yyXCQHX55N4
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-06-06T12:30:10Z
Duration: PT29M5S
Views: 19192
Likes: 421
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 966

Description:
Mukund Jha is the co-founder and CEO of Emergent, a platform that lets anyone without programming knowledge build, ship, and monetize real software by chatting with an AI agent. Launched roughly nine months ago, Emergent has surpassed 8.5 million users across 190 countries, seen more than 10 million apps built on the platform. At Startup School India, Mukund sat down with YC Managing Partner Jared Friedman to go over his founder journey and insights from building two successful companies.   

ht

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

If you look at like last 30 years, like
most of the economic gain in the world
has come from software companies. If you
remove all the software companies from
you know, NASDAQ and and S&P, you'll see
it's been just a flat line. And and we
started thinking, okay, what if we could
bring this power to almost everybody in
the world?
>> Welcome. Super excited to be here. What
a crowd. So,
Mulchand, um
maybe not everybody knows what a
merchant is and also like what a big
deal it is. [clears throat] For those
who don't know, a merchant is one of the
fastest AI growing is the fastest
growing AI companies in the world and
really I would say one of the first
truly AI native companies in India to
get to real scale.
>> Right. Right.
>> Um and so you're going to get to hear
from I really see you as like a pioneer
of a next generation of startups coming
out of India and we you're going to get
to hear how how he's done it. Um to
start with, maybe you can just tell
everybody what a merchant is.
>> Yeah, so I mean thanks for inviting me.
I'm super excited to be here. I can't
imagine like so many people coming to
the school and the whole energy in India
about the whole YC trip has been
amazing. I was at IIT Delhi a couple of
days back, same energy.
So, super excited to be here.
Emergent is a platform that allows
anybody without any programming
knowledge to be able to build software
that you can actually ship. Uh that your
users can use, that you can monetize.
Uh essentially we're riding on this
whole wave of
coding becoming easier with AI. Uh and
when we started our journey, we actually
started off as a research lab building
coding agents. Became world number one
on SweetBench, which is the benchmark
for all of the coding agent. Uh it was
just a four people team which actually
got us there and then we started
thinking about like, hey, what would
happen in the world if we can
democratize coding for everybody?
Um and me being a programmer, Madhav
who's my co-founder, who's my twin
brother,
um he both of us have been programming
since age 12 um and super super
passionate about uh you know,
programming and um, of the things that
we realized that if you look at like
last 30 years, like most of the economic
gain in the world has come from software
companies. If you remove all the
software companies from, um, you know,
Nasdaq and and S&P, you'll see it's been
just a flat line. And and beside
thinking, okay, what if we can bring
this power to almost everybody in the
world. Like there are billion people
with so many ideas. So many ideas just
die because you do not have an access to
sort of bring them to life. And and that
was the mission that we started with.
Uh, today we have more than 8 and a half
million people uh, who are using the
platform. More than 10 million apps have
been built. Uh, we recently crossed 100
million dollars in annualized run rate.
Uh, today one of the fastest growing
startups in the world and and the reason
is that we are able to allow people to
actually really ship what they dream.
And it's as easy as just chatting with
your agent and we take care of
everything from hosting, deployment,
maintenance of the product um, and
truly unlocking the power of, you know,
bringing an idea to life with just
chatting with your agent.
>> How long since you launched the current
version of the product?
>> Yeah, we launched about 9 months back.
>> 9 months, okay. So,
keep in mind, this is basically a
9-month-old company. Tell us like about
the scale that you're operating at just
9 months in.
>> Yeah, so we have uh, close to about 8
and a half million users on the platform
um, and
um, we are we are well over 100 million
in annualized uh, revenue run rate. And
again like I think the latent demand in
the market is is really really high.
People There are a lot of people who
want to uh, build software and and so
far have not been able to have the
access to these tools. And platform like
ours truly enables them to ship, you
know, an idea that they have had in
mind. A lot of our users are actually
entrepreneurs who do not have a uh, tech
team and have been sort of handicapped
by access to technology and and now are
able to build.
>> Who are your users? And also, where are
your users?
>> Yeah, so we uh, have users all across
the globe in 190 countries. Uh, when I
started when I actually like just to
give you a little bit of background,
right? When I came to India in 2014, I
was before that I was in Google in in
US. And I've always had this
thought that hey, why is there no Google
from India? Why is there no Facebook
from India? We have so much talent, so
much engineering talent. In fact, you
look at the top leadership of all of
these companies, you know, like
Microsoft, Google, you know, there are
sort of Indian folks who have sort of
gone there, right? And I've always
wondered why is there no sort of
technology first global company from
India, right? And so when I was
after Dunzo when I was thinking what
what to do next, like one of the things
that that I had in the back of my mind
was that I truly want to build a global
company from India, like just like
Facebook and Google. And today we have
people have been using us over 190
countries. And most of the like revenue
comes from US and Europe.
India accounts for about 10% of our
revenue. And but yeah, our audience is
fully global.
>> And I'm not sure the people know, but
before you started
a merchant, you started another company
that I'm sure they all know called
Dunzo, which is like a really big deal.
You raised what, like a half a billion
dollars? And it was like a this is a
huge company. Yeah.
>> Yeah, I'm sure in Bangalore I think a
lot of people would know us.
You know, we were pretty popular in
Bangalore. We like You know, at our peak
we were one of the most loved consumer
brands in the country. Even today when
people ship something they say hey,
Dunzo it and and almost became a verb in
the country. At peak we were doing about
10 million monthly orders. We were one
of the first people to start the trend
of quick commerce in the country. The
10-minute delivery trend. You know,
it was a pretty different journey. Like
I was solving problems which were very
operational nature.
Also like last mile logistics, you know,
how do you sort of set the dark dark
store network. And the lesson that you
know, like
I would say was applicable there and is
applicable here as well is be picked up
to solve the hard problems. When we
started Dunzo, there were about
um 87 companies which were doing exactly
the same thing, right? Because we had It
was very simple. You could just WhatsApp
us and and we would you know, we were
kind of like a concierge on WhatsApp.
So, it was super easy to get started,
but I think the hard part was the last
mile. Like, how do you sort of really
make sure the the end consumer actually
gets the product, the product is
delivered in the right state, um and and
we chose to sort of do that. You know,
we were actually doing deliveries
ourselves early on. Like, I had you
know, a bike and a car and I would just
um in the night get an order, I would I
would jump on a bike myself and and go
and deliver. And I think early days just
doing things yourself and and this is
one of the YC mantra, doing things that
don't scale, right? Really really helps
you get close to the customer,
understand the real pain point, whether
there's a value or not. Um and I think
like uh just just you know, being a
customer yourself or doing things for
the customer really really helps.
>> Can
can we actually go back in time a bit
and talk a little bit about your
personal background? I learned just a
couple of days ago that a merchant is
actually not just your second company,
but your fifth startup. This guy's
actually started five startups.
Um
>> Yeah.
>> Tell us like
>> Yeah.
>> Um
Maybe tell us a bit about your early
career, where you grew up and went to
school, coming to the US, and just sort
of like getting started.
>> Yeah, so I actually like grew up in a
very uh I would say middle-class, upper
middle-class family. My dad is an
engineer. Um and um
obviously like uh got into engineering
college, um did my engineering. Um
always had this uh um
idea that I want to do something of my
own. I actually very early on saw a lot
of videos of Steve Jobs and was like
really really inspired. Um I mean, I I
saw him him launching the first iPhone
in 2007, and that was the moment like
you know, I thought oh, I want to bring
something to the world uh you know, in
in similar fashion. And in fact, I went
to uh Spain for an internship in 2008,
bought an iPhone. I mean, it didn't work
in India, but I just bought it because I
liked it so much. Just bought it as a
souvenir for myself. Try to hack it to
make it work. And then 2009 is when I
went to US to do my PhD. Um
and then did an internship at Google. I
liked it
so much and
whatever research I was going to do
Google had actually done that research
already 2 years back. So I thought there
was no point. So I dropped out of the
PhD program, joined Google, was in the
search ranking team. There was a
50-people team that controlled all of
Google search ranking.
I was the youngest person in that team.
So I got a lot of liberty to sort of,
you know, question a lot of things
because I was
a young person who could just just
challenge the system. And at that time
Google was very anti-machine learning.
Like they didn't want to like have
machine learning in search. And I was a
machine learning engineer. So so I I got
a lot of, you know, leeway in terms of
asking a lot of questions saying, "Hey,
like why are we not using machine
learning here?" Eventually like got to
push some of the biggest changes in
search ranking when I was there for for
a couple of years.
Then got bitten by the
startup bug. Left that Google, started a
company which was trying to build a
group education platform where you can
actually, you know,
bring a group group class together.
Raised a bunch of money. Eventually like
we pivoted into a P2P software company
and realized that my passion was not
that. I really wanted to sort of solve
education, wanted to build something
consumer first.
So returned the money, shut down that
startup. Started another company into
sort of habit creation. How do you sort
of help people form better habits? Same
time got married. My wife didn't want to
move to US. So I moved back to India.
And I thought I could do startup from
anywhere. And I had an engineering team
in New York. I was I was working from
India. But
realized that the hard way it's really
hard to coordinate, you know, without at
that time. So gave that up. And
a lot of things that sort of has stuck
with me like since the beginning has
been that
and which is sort of, you know, like
over time I have sort of realized to,
you know, like do more of is just trust
my intuition more. And and
So So, even with Dunzo, like I started
with this personal problem that when I
moved to Bangalore, like there were too
many things to be done. Like I had a car
to be serviced, I had, you know,
electricity uh to be set up, gas, all of
those things. And I thought there must
be an easier to do this. And I just, you
know, um
started a WhatsApp group and gave that
number to a lot of my friends saying
that, "Hey, if you need anything, just
ping me on this group. We'll we'll help
you get that done." So, started with a
personal pain pain point that, "Hey,
like we wanted to sort of, you know,
make life more convenient in urban
cities." Um and I think that has sort of
stuck with me throughout, you know, that
where whenever I'm I've been able to
sort of, you know, um solve a personal
pain point, like the feedback always
went stronger.
Um you relate with the problem more
deeply, you relate with the customer
more deeply. And and even with the
version, same thing happened, like, you
know, me and Maddy, both of us are like
idea guys. Like we have like thousands
of ideas all the time. And we wanted to
sort of, you know, like automate and get
more of these ideas out in the life. And
and and that's why we sort of started
automating uh programming and and got
started on the journey.
>> Dunzo was a huge deal. I mean, you
scaled a massive company. Maybe you can
remember some of the some of the stats
about how big it got. How many Yeah.
>> Yeah, so Dunzo, like we had almost a
million riders on the ground. Uh and we
were doing 10 million monthly orders,
almost like 5,000 store stores overall.
Uh yeah, so pretty uh large scale, yeah.
>> Do you have like lessons that you took
away from that experience? Either things
you think, you know, you did right in
order to scale something so large or you
mean maybe even things that you would do
differently?
At the same time.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think Dunzo, like even
though, like, you know, like it was a
bitter sweet ending like for us, like
the um
takeaway was was was like for me was
like two two three things. One was like
solving the hard problem, right? We
actually, as I said, there were like 87
companies doing the same thing. And we
really, really uh cared about the
consumer a lot. Like I remember, you
know, earlier back then there was no AI.
So, so all the chatting had to be manual
and every evening there would be a spike
in traffic and every single engineer
would drop what they were working on,
get back on you know, on the chat
screen, talk to our customers and very
early on we had this you know, like
culture where we really deeply cared
about the customer like there was there
was a customer who wanted to ship
something to a different city and we
actually put a driver the one of the
riders on a plane to send that packet.
So we would go that extra mile for every
single customer and that's how sort of
we we created this genuine love from all
the customers. Uh second thing I think
like one of the things that I learned
from like us not being able to sort of
scale eventually was I think like focus
is really important. Like I think for us
like dark store wasn't really working
and working really well, but at that
point we were doing like 10 other
things. Like we were doing a marketplace
model, we were doing pick up and drop,
we were doing you know, like bunch of
those things.
Um so I think like us like knowing that
hey, this is working, let's double down
on this model would have really really
helped.
Um but eventually I think like I I just
see this as a series of you know, like
me being a builder, you know, you know,
just just as a stepping stone to to do
something bigger. Yeah.
>> Okay, so you worked on Dunzo for a bunch
of years. You scaled it to this really
huge company. It must have been a very
intense experience running a you know,
like atoms based
business where all kinds of things go
wrong every day, I'm sure.
>> Very very very hard. I mean yeah, I mean
we had we had a team called watchtower
which would watch over every single
order and
it it was almost like a war room. You
were in a war room continuously because
every day operational things break
pretty pretty often. Yeah.
And lot of that is sort of I borrowed
here. So the way we sort of run Emergent
as well is we monitor all the all the
all the all the tasks that are that are
getting built, all the software that is
getting built and and if something's are
breaking we flag that. So lot of the
operational rigor I've been able to
borrow from
you know, Dunzo to Emergent as well.
Yes.
>> So in 2023 you've been doing this for a
number of years and you left Dunzo.
Um tell us the story of like leaving
Dunzo and then what what emergent like
came out of
>> Yeah, I think 2023 like um
at one point we thought like Dunzo was
too big to fail um and you know we had
raised $200
in a recent round and I actually told my
co-founder that hey I think now we are
too big to fail right and and of course
like the story didn't end end that way.
Um so when I got out in September 23 I
was actually pretty depressed like
didn't didn't want to do anything in my
life um and for like first 6 months I
was just you know um
reflecting on hey what could have we
done better. Luckily like AI AI was
happening at that time so you know like
ChatGPT was just taking off um GPT-4 had
just come out so I think it was it was a
little bit easy for us to sort of
building and and sort of building and
coding became sort of my escape from
from all the you know the noise that was
there. So I would actually spend like 10
12 hours just sitting on my computer
tinkering with
um
all of the things that was coming out
the new voice models were coming out you
know people were the new open source
models coming out at that point. So I
actually got this luxury of 6 months of
like just pure tinkering on things that
I really liked with no sort of objective
in mind. Um I I built this like
an assistant on my Mac where it could
actually talk to me and I I could sort
of something very similar to open cloud
but very early version of that and I I
was just following you know like
whatever was exciting to me at that
point and it became very clear to me
very early on that like coding as a
space is going to be one that's going to
get disrupted very quickly
um and I spent much of time in US with
my friends with with people at the labs
um but I think it was just pure joy of
tinkering pure joy of just building
something without any pressure um that
sort of led us to sort of think of this
idea that led us to sort of you know
um build emergent in some way because
all of the insights that we got while
tinkering we were able to apply while we
were building the product um and and uh
you know that really helped And I think
just having this um the sense of
curiosity and sense of um you know, like
when you're you're building things just
for the pure joy of it, just for the
um you know, because because you want to
solve a problem, right? I think I think
that allows you to go really deep into
the problem and bring insights that is
otherwise very hard to get.
>> I I like I kind of love this picture of
you. You like you just have the super
intense experience, you build one of the
top companies in India, you're burnt
out, you're basically just like
recuperating.
>> Yeah.
>> And
in your spare time, because you have
some time then, you're just like
tinkering with the latest model. You're
just seeing, "Oh, maybe we could get
like ChatGPT to write some code. I don't
know."
>> Yeah, I mean it it was practically like
just, you know, like um me
I mean, just going back to like in the
old times when I was a kid, you know,
like I would just pick something new and
and play with it. And it just felt like
the same thing that I was just playing
with this new technology and and uh the
pace at which uh you know, models were
sort of accelerating, there was it was
really really fascinating for us to see
that. And for us to build a lot of deep
insight into like how elements are going
to progress. But for example, like when
we started Emergent, most of the
companies were building uh co-pilots.
That that was the fashion. That was That
was what what every VC
uh wanted to hear. We in fact went and
pitched to like 10 12 VCs, got rejected
from most of them.
Uh and this is, you know, tons of
founder who just had a big company
coming out, getting rejected from most
VCs. Because we told them, "Hey, we're
going to automate software engineering."
And they thought it was crazy. Like
that, you know, it would the AI is not
there yet. And but we could see we could
see the model are capable like, you
know, if you if you just project it out
a little bit, um you know, that the
steps that they are feeling like could
be easily trained back. Um so, we we
took this very massive view that AI
progress is going to be exponential. And
we will always build in the direction of
AI. And and that's sort of led us to um
sort of think from a problem perspective
that, "Hey, let's automate all of
software engineering versus piece by
piece uh thinking of that." So, I I I
think having that uh um downtime and
just that tinkering energy like really
really helped
us find the way. Yeah.
>> I I just want to like pull on a thread
from this because I think this is really
good general advice for everyone in the
room. Like what what Mukund was doing,
we we we have a name for this at Woven
by Ikan we call it living at the edge.
It's like the models weren't good at
writing code yet. And when you like
pitched to VCs, they were like the
models like aren't going to be able to
do this. And like they weren't quite
able to do it yet, but you could tell
that they were that like if you if you
project it out
>> But you could see the sparks, yes.
>> Right. And like that's where a lot of
the best startup ideas come from. It's
the things that aren't quite possible
yet. That's maybe a good segue to talk
about some of the technical details of
Emergent. Like
if you just go to Emergent, maybe you
don't realize the sort of like deep
technical foundations that it's built
on. Can you talk about that?
>> Yeah, so I mean we actually you know,
like when we started our journey, like
most people were building co-pilots. We
thought we'll build autonomous agents
that could do Agents was not even a word
then. Now it's obviously everywhere, but
like we built this multi-agent
orchestrated system where you have
different agents who which will come in
different point of time and and perform
different um action. Like for example,
we have automated testing agent which
will test your app. We have a design
agent that will design your app.
All of this is coordinated, you know,
through
a large memory system that we have built
which is sort of self-learns. Every time
a new app gets built on Emergent, like
you know, our agents actually extract
from that what are the learnable aspects
and sort of store it in memory. So,
every every new app actually getting
built on the Emergent makes the platform
even better. And a lot of the energy has
gone into us into collecting all of the
data that we have now. We do a lot of RL
on top of that.
We do some amount of fine-tuning and and
but a lot of the things that we have
built essentially is all of the
infrastructure that we have built
ourselves. So, we have built all of the
coding agent. We have built all of the
infrastructure. For example, we when we
started there was nobody building
deep container technology. So, we had to
invent a lot of the container edge
technology ourselves, like for example,
we wanted to preserve state so that you
could have multiple parallel agents
running on the same same snapshot. So,
we had to invent disk snapshotting,
memory snapshotting, all of those
things.
And I think one of the things that you
as you said, like you know, living on
the edge, you actually discover these
problems much early on before, you know,
like other others other ecosystem
discovers it. And often time you'll have
to go solve it them yourself. Like for
example, today like we have
multiple different sort of parallel
agents that can sort of swarm together
and and complete a task. Which we think
is going to be like like like the
future. And and what we are observing is
that every time a new model comes out
comes out, like for example, a new class
of model, for example, Opus is a new
class of model, like you have to
actually delete whatever you have
learned so far and sort of reimagine the
world from the lens of this new model.
So, so far like, you know, in 9 months
we have already rewritten our system
three times.
And and just just when a when a new
model comes out we have to sort of start
rethinking that, okay, what are the new
possibilities that's going to open up
and what what where this model is going
to be in 6 months.
And
one of the things I was telling you
before that, you know, like that like
when we started merging, like one of the
biggest challenge was actually that
models could not do a good JSON output.
And like there were like at least 20 or
30 YC companies that were solving the
exact same problem, JSON parsing, right?
And we took this view that, hey, like,
you know, like the next model will be
able to solve this. So, let's
we just completely skip that problem, we
started building the agent and and sort
of, you know, went on the journey. So, I
think living on the edge and just trying
to imagine what is possible in next 6
months is really important as you sort
of progress through your startup
journey.
>> Um, can you talk about beating the
benchmark? Is that's that's like a core
core part core part of the founding
story here?
>> Yeah. So,
so one one of the things that like
happened when we went to YC was that and
this happens with a lot of YC founders
that that, you know, like you you come
in with a different idea, you sort of,
you know, stumble upon a different idea.
When we actually went to YC, we were
building testing agents initially,
right? And
and and and when when sort of we were
coming coming from India like we drew
drew this on a whiteboard that hey like
very soon you'll be able to build build
web apps mobile apps you know through
AI. And we had this diagram that hey
like we'll be able to build web app
mobile apps on on on this thing. We day
one we went to our YC partner told them
that hey we want to build a consumer app
building company and they said okay this
this you know like maybe you should
think about enterprise this this seems
too ambitious. Um and for the first like
it's a three-month program so for for
for three months every week we would
have a new idea on the board okay idea
of the week is you know let's say AI
Zapier and and we'll spend a week sort
of you know building that or or taking
with that.
Um and eventually like you know every
every week we'll have a new idea we
would pivoting like crazy. And
and team was getting frustrated hey like
you have a new idea every week what are
we going to do? Uh so almost just to
distract them I actually picked this
benchmark sweet bench which is the
hardest benchmark at that time and I
told them hey like while I figure out
what what we're going to build let's
just attack this benchmark because you
know it allows to solve harder problems
and then solve almost send them in that
direction. It took us three months to
sort of crack that benchmark became
world number one on that benchmark but
that's really set us the foundation for
emergent where we were able to build
world's best coding agent. Uh all of the
innovation that we sort of have in
emergent right now whether it's it's
paralyzed test time compute um all of
the memory agent to agent communication
all of those things we were able to
discover when when we were on this
benchmark and I think like like even
today I think like um
at attaching yourself to a number which
which can sort of show you progress is
really really good way to sort of you
know attack a goal or or good go towards
uh building a company because that sort
of focuses you into right direction it
gives you like a really good feedback in
terms of what's happening. Yeah.
>> Yeah it's super super impressive what
you guys did beating beating that
benchmark before you even really had a
startup idea like for what to do around
it. Um
a recurring theme of the talks today has
been um this concept of second mover
advantage. Um you know like Zepto wasn't
the first grocery delivery company and
Giga wasn't the first AI customer
support thing. Emergent was also not the
first AI website builder to launch. When
you launched Emergent, there were
already a couple of like pretty big
players and probably a whole bunch of
small ones. Um
much like I guess your story of starting
Dunzo when there were already 80 80 80
similar companies. What What What gave
you the confidence to launch this anyway
even though you weren't the first to the
market and how have you been able to
carve out such a such a big space for
yourself?
>> Yeah, I mean for us um when we looked at
the problem space, we realized that
like most of the other platforms that
were out there like they were mostly
focused on front end and building demo
ware, right? And and that's what like
where a lot of these were finding
product market fit, right? But what we
realized was that like users are
actually going to want real software to
be shipped. Um and you know, the problem
is far from solved, right? Like and we
saw that the the expectation that users
have versus you know, and I'm sure the
same thing is with Giga as well, right?
Like the expectation that user has like
hey, my queries get solved. Same
expectation our users have that my
software should actually work, right?
When I when I'm prompting something. And
most of the solutions out there like
even though they they were like good at
getting started, right? They were like
really bad at finishing. Like you you
will not get a working software out of
that. You will not get a You will not
have a real back end. You will not have
a real databases attached. And and so we
came to this from from a very different
angle saying that hey, if you were to
automate all of software engineering,
how would you approach the problem? We
almost built everything ground up. Um
>> [snorts]
>> and we could see like in practice when
we sort of ran prompts on all all the
platform and asked like we were
massively outperforming everybody else
in the market, right? So that allowed us
to sort of really really attack attack
the market in a big way. But I think
again like we we came to this from a
very sort of consumer insight that
consumers are actually going to want
real software that is working and not
just prototype and demos and and nobody
in the market was solving that. Um and
there were no good solutions that
actually could could take you to the
finish line and that's why sort of we we
attacked that. And once we had the
product like we had to think through
GTM, how do we market it? We looked at
like which companies are growing really
fast, what what what they have done.
Um, and
sort of almost converted our growth into
a math problem saying that hey, how many
social views do we need? How many like,
you know,
impression do we need? How many clicks
will we get? How many users will we get?
And at that point we knew okay, like
influencer is a good strategy for us to
sort of really launch because we knew
the product is really good, working
really well. We just need to get in
front of as many users as possible and
that's sort of been the growth engine
for us.
>> Where is the Emergent team
based and how do you think about
building an AI native company that
targets a global audience um, here?
>> Yeah, so most of the team is actually in
Bangalore. We have 95% of our team in
Bangalore. Pretty much built out of
India completely. We have a very small
team in SF. We have recently opened new
office in SF, so small team is there.
And by the way, we are hiring, so if
people want to, you know, apply and and
work at a strong AI native company,
please write to me mukund@emergent.sh.
Happy to take a look at that. And I
think like one of the things that I've
I've realized, you know, like and we
generally like hire for like learning
slope. People who aren't like really
really passionate about, you know,
solving a problem. People who get
excited about, you know, solving some of
these problems. And what we have seen is
is that I think like one of the things
that separates us right now from from
other companies that everybody in the
company generally enjoys solving and
working with AI, right? I think there's
this added of course the growth is great
and and you know, we we get to solve
real user problems. But I think just the
you know, the the complexity of the
problem and the possibilities are so
much that we generally enjoy like
day-to-day problem solving with AI right
now. So that's amazing.
>> You've had a chance to build two very
different companies.
You built Dunzo in the sort of like
first wave of great Indian startups that
were building things like Zepto, a lot
of like local local local stuff. And now
you're building Emergent, which is like
the part of this like second wave of AI
native companies post ChatGPT. I'm
curious first, what are what are some of
your your takeaways from building those
two kinds of companies? And then second,
what would your advice be to folks in
the audience who are thinking about
where to look for startup ideas and what
kind of things to build?
>> Yeah, I mean I think I mean my
realization after building the two
companies is that like
building a company for for India, a
local company, versus building a global
company is actually exactly same effort.
You know, it's it's equally hard to
build a company in India versus building
a global company. And so my advice to a
lot of people right now is just think
global from day one because I mean it's
going to be equally hard to build both
the startups. I mean and and it's kind
of like a like a prevalent wisdom that
actually starting a harder idea is
easier because you can inspire a lot
more people to go after a harder
problem, right? And you can sort of, you
know, inspire yourself to to go after
these. So So I would I would I would
recommend that like think global from
day one because like now you have the
reach, the access. This internet is with
everyone. Technology is a big leveling,
you know, for for everyone. Everybody
has the same access, same technology.
And
and you can actually just reach global
customer from day zero from from India
today. Um the other thing I would say is
that one I think
um
just following your intuition is really
really I mean you'll get a lot of
advice, but I think following as a
founder following your intuition uh is
actually much better because, you know,
like you probably have a better sense of
general, you know, what your customer
wants, um what your customer needs. Um
and also I think um just thinking big
and ambitious, I think
whatever you're thinking right now, just
10x that, 100x that because I think the
next uh you know, with AI I think a lot
of lot of things are changing and and
it's it's not a time to sort of uh
attack the floor, it's the time to
attack the ceiling. And think really
big. And the bigger you think the the
the I would say the higher probability
that you'll get to success.
>> That's an amazing piece of advice for us
to end on. Mukund, you're an inspiration
to us. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much for having
me here and and the energy is electric
here and I'm looking forward to lot
[applause] more of gigas and emergent
coming out of India over the next year
or so and looking forward to this people
here.
>> [applause]
>> Cheers.