Title: Making Music and Art Through Machine Learning - Doug Eck of Magenta
Video ID: yz-fHidp1M8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yz-fHidp1M8
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2017-07-21T15:39:49Z
Duration: PT44M22S
Views: 4099
Likes: 65
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, Magenta, Tensorflow, Doug Eck, Podcast, Interview, AI, Art, Music, Machine Learning, Google, Douglas Eck, Creative Coding
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1372

Description:
Doug Eck is a research scientist at Google and he’s working on Magenta, a project making music and art through machine learning - https://twitter.com/douglas_eck

If you want to learn more you can check out http://Magenta.Tensorflow.org

YC's podcast is hosted by Craig Cannon - http://twitter.com/craigcannon

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Hey, this is Craig Cannon and you're
listening to Y Combinators podcast.
Today's episode is with Doug Ek. Doug's
a research scientist at Google and he's
working on Magenta, which is a project
making music and art through machine
learning. Their goal is to basically
create open source tools and models that
help creative people be even more
creative. So, if you want to learn more
about Magenta or get started using it,
you can check out
magenta.tensorflow.org.
All right, here we go. I wanted to start
with the um the quote that you ended
your IO talk with uh because I feel like
that might be helpful for some folks. Um
so it's a Brianino quote and uh I will
have the slightly longer version.
Yeah. Good. Yeah.
So yeah, it it goes like this. Um
whatever you now find weird, ugly,
uncomfortable, and nasty about a new
medium will surely become its signature.
CD, CD distortion, the jitteriness of
digital video, the crap sound of 8-bit.
All of these will be cherished and
emulated as soon as they can be avoided.
It's the sound of failure. So much
modern art is the sound of things going
out of control out of a medium pushing
to its limits and breaking apart. So
that's how you ended your IO talk.
Correct. And what it kind of opened up
for me was like what when you're
thinking about creating magenta and all
the projects therein as new mediums,
how are you thinking about like how are
you thinking about what's going to be
broken and what's going to be created?
The reason that I put that quote there,
I think, is to to be honest with the uh
the division between engineering and
research and and artistry and to not
think that what I'm doing is being a a
machine learning artist, but we're
trying to build interesting ways to make
new kinds of art. And I think, you know,
it occurred to me, I read that quote and
I thought, you know, that's it, right?
No matter how hard Eastman or whomever
invented the the film camera, I'm sorry
if that's the wrong person, right?
um like they clearly weren't thinking of
breakage or they're trying to avoid
certain kinds of breakage. I mean, you
know, guitar amplifiers aren't supposed
to distort, you know, and and you know,
I thought, well, what if we do that with
machine learning? Like like like models
that are like the first thing you're
going to do if you think if if someone
comes to you and says, "Here's this
really smart model that you can make art
with."
What are you going to do? You're going
to try to show the world that it's a
stupid model, right? But maybe the way
that maybe it's smart enough that it's
kind of hard to make it stupid. So, you
get to have a lot of fun making it
stupid, right?
I was playing with a quick draw this
morning with my girlfriend and um what
she was trying to do was make the most
accurate picture that the computer
wouldn't recognize like immediately out
of the gate. She works in art and like
Yeah. doesn't want to believe.
That's right. It's a good It's a good
intuition. I mean, you know.
Yeah. Um so, so maybe the best way to
start is then talk about like what are
you working on right now? What are you
guys making?
So, right now we're working on God, let
me think. It's a good question. Um we
have this project called NSynth which is
um trying to get deep learning models to
generate new sounds and uh we're working
on a number of ways to make that better.
I think one way to think about it is we
have these um we have this latent space.
We have a um so to make that a little
bit less a buzzword. We have a kind of
compressed space a space that doesn't
have the ability to memorize the
original audio but it's set up in such a
way that we can try to regenerate some
of that audio. And in regenerating it,
we don't get back exactly what we
started with, but hopefully we get
something close.
And that space is set up so that we can
move around in that space in and come
into to new points in that space and
actually listen to what's there.
Mhm.
Right now, it's uh quite slow to to
listen, so to speak. We're not able to
do things in real time. And um we also
would love to be at kind of a meta level
building models that can generate those
embeddings having trained on other data
so that you're able to move around in
that space in different ways. And so
we're kind of moving, we're continuing
to work with with um with sound
generation for um for music. And we also
um are spending quite a bit of time on
uh rethinking the music sequence
generation work that we're doing. We put
out some models that were you know by
any reasonable account primitive. I mean
kind of very simple recurrent neural
networks that um that generate u MIDI
from MIDI
and that maybe use attention that maybe
um you know have a little bit smarter
ways to sample as when when when when
doing inference when generating um and
now we're actually taking seriously wait
a minute what if we really look at large
data sets of performed music what if we
actually start to care about expressive
timing and dynamics care deeply about
polifany and and really care about like
not putting out kind of what you would
consider a simple reference model, but
actually what we think is super good.
And and I think, you know, that those
are the things we're focusing on. I
think we're trying to actually make
things, you know, really pull up quality
and uh and and make things that are
better and more usable for for people.
And so with all that supervised
learning, are you like are you going to
create a web app that people will
evaluate how good the music is? Because
I I heard a couple interviews with you
before where that was the issue, right?
like how do you know what's good?
Yeah. Uh the so that is like the I'm
pausing because that's the big question
I think in my mind is how do we evaluate
these models?
Yeah.
Um I at least for Magenta I haven't felt
like the quality of of what we've been
generating has been good enough to
bother so to speak like like you find
you cherry pick you find some good
things you're like okay this model
trains and it's interesting and now we
kind of understand the the API the input
output of of what we're trying to do.
Um, I would love
Yeah, I don't know how to solve this.
Like I he conceptually what we do,
here's what we do, right? We build we
build a a mobile app and we make it go
viral. That's what we do, right? And
then once it's viral, we just keep
feeding all of this great art and music
in. And I used to do music
recommendation. We just build a
collaborative filter and which is a kind
of way to make, you know, recommend
items to people based upon what they
like. and we start giving people what
they like and we pay attention to what
they like and we make the models better.
So all we need to do is make that app go
viral. All right. Just one simple thing.
In fact, maybe someone in the Y
cominator world can help us do that.
Right.
Yeah. It's like sliding between cow and
trombone. What's the best sound?
Exactly. Yeah. Right. Maybe maybe that
particular web app is not the right
answer. No, I mean I'm saying that as a
joke, but I think look at it this way.
We if we can find a way or or the
community in general can find a way for
machine generated media
to be to be sort of out there for a
large group of interested users to play
with. I think we can learn from that
signal and I think we can learn to
improve and if we do we'll make quite a
nice contribution to machine learning.
We will we will we will learn to improve
based upon human feedback to generate
something of interest. So that's a great
goal. Yeah,
we had a secret
plan, you know, like we're figurep.
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Sorry.
Uh interesting. Okay. Cuz I was
wondering what kind of data you were
getting back from artists. You know, do
people just use use all of your
projects, you know, all of the repos to
create things of their own interest or
are they pushing back valuable data to
you? So, we're getting we're getting
some valuable data back and I think what
we're getting back some of the signals
that we're getting back are giving us
such an obvious direction for
improvement. Um, like why would I want
to run a Python command to generate a
thousand MIDI files? That's not what we
do. You know, like like like you get
that kind of feedback. You're like,
okay, we wanted this command line
version because, you know, we needed to
be able to test some things. But if
musicians are really going to use the
music part of what we're doing, we have
to provide them with more fluid and more
useful tools. And there I think we're
we're still sitting with so many obvious
hard problems to solve like integration
with something like Ableton or like
really solid um you know real-time IO
and things like that that we know what
to work on. But I think we'll get to the
point pretty quickly where we'll have
something that's kind of solves the
obvious problems, plugs in reasonably
well to your workflow and you can start
to generate some things and you can play
with sound. And then then we need to be
much more careful about um about you
know the questions we ask and and how
good we are at listening to to how
people use what we're doing.
And so what what are artists using it
for at this at this point
right now? So we have most of what we've
done so far has had to do with music.
Yeah.
Um, if we if we look for a second away
from music and look at sketch RNN, which
is a model that learned to draw,
we've actually seen quite a bit of so at
a more at a higher level, sketch RNN is
a recurrent neural network trained on
sketches to make sketches. And the the
sketches came from uh a game that Google
released called QuickDraw where people
had 20 seconds to draw something to try
to win at Pictionary with a with a
computer, you know, classifier
counterpart.
And so, you know, we trained a model
that can generate new cats or dogs or
whatever. There's some really cool
classes in there. Um cruise ship is
nice.
Yeah. The one that always threw me was
camouflage. Like it calls out camouflage
all the time. Like I'm never
It's as if by definition you can't draw
it, right? Um,
nothing. Pause for 20 seconds,
right? Yeah. I I actually won a
Pictionary round with the word white and
I just pointed at the paper. I'm like,
"No way." And she said, "White." I'm
like, "You got to be kidding." Okay. So,
anyway, it's kind of like a correlary to
camouflage. Um, so we've seen artists
start to like sample from the model.
We've seen artists using the model as
like a as a distance measure to look for
weird examples because the model has an
idea of what's probable in the space.
We've also seen artists just playing
around with the raw data. Um, and so
there's been a nice explosion there. I
think, you know, I'm not expecting that
artists really do a huge amount with
with this quick draw data because as
cool as it is, these things were drawn
in 20 seconds, right? There's kind of a
limit to how much we can do with them.
Um, on the music side, we've had um a
number of people playing with with Ninth
with just like dumps of samples from
Ninth. So, basically like a a
rudimentary uh uh synthesizer and there
I've been surprised at the um the kind
of I would expect that if you're really
good at this, so like your AX twin or
you want how about this? You want to be
AEX twin, right? That you look at this
and go, "Yeah, whatever. There are 50
other tools that I have that I can use."
But that those are the people that we
found have been the most interested
because I think I think we are
generating some sounds that are that are
new. I mean so first you can as someone
pointed out on on hackernews you can
take a few a few oscillators and a noise
generator and make something new. But I
think these are new in a way um when you
start sampling the space between uh you
know a trombone and a flute or something
like that that these are new in a way
that that capture
some very nice harmonic properties.
capture some of the essence of the Brian
Eno quote are kind of
kind of broken and glitchy and edgy in a
way. Um but that glitchiness is not um
the same as you would get from like uh
digital clipping. The glitchiness sounds
really harmonic. Um
and and so um like for example Jesse on
our team, Jesse Engel, he built some
Ableton plugin where you're listening to
these notes, but you're able to change
the um like erase the beginnings of the
notes. So you like erase the onsets,
which is usually where most of the
information is. Like most of the
information in a piano note is kind of
that first percussive onset,
but it's the onsets that the model is
doing such a great job of reproducing
because it gradually kind of moves away
from in time. It's a temporal embedding
and the noise kind of adds up as we move
through the embedding in time. So it's
the tails of these notes that start to
get ringy and like they'll d-tune and
you'll hear these rushes of noise come
in or there'll be this little weird
whoop at the end. M.
And so like we found that that musicians
who've actually played with sound a lot
find these particular sounds immensely
fascinating. I think they're the kinds
of sounds that are that sound
interesting in a way that's hard to
describe unless you've played with them.
Yeah.
I think they're interesting because the
model has been forced to capture some of
the important sources of variance in
real music audio. And even when it fails
to reproduce all of them, when it fills
in with confusion, so to speak, even
that confusion is is somehow driven by
musical sound.
And um which you know, you see by the
correlary, you know, if you look at
something like DeepDream and you see
what models are doing when they're sort
of showing you what they've learned, it
may not be what you expect from the
world, but there's something kind of
interesting about them, right? Um
anyway, it's a long answer, but the
short version of the answer is we've
found that working with very talented
musicians has been has been really
fruitful.
And our challenge is now to be good
enough at what we do and make it easy
enough and make it clean enough that
even someone who's not an AX twin, and
I'm not saying we worked with Ax Twin,
we didn't work with Ax Twin, but like
you know that kind of that kind of
artist. Yeah. that we can als
it's not necessarily generating melodies
for people so much as it is generating
interesting sounds. That's what's
brought them in.
That's what's brought them in. Though
the parallel has existed for um the
sequence generation stuff. And what I
noticed even with AI duet which is this
um like web- based like it's a simple
RNN it's like I can lay claim it's it's
technology that was published in 2002.
It's really a very simple really simple
but like
so like so this model if you haven't you
know if your viewers haven't seen it you
you play a little melody and then the
model thinks for a minute and the AI
genius which is an LSTM network comes
back and plays something back to you
right if you play for release you know d
right and you wait you're expecting
maybe you know that it'll continue the
tune it's not going to right it's going
to go right so like this idea of like
expecting the model to like carry these
long arcs of melody along is not really
understanding the model. M
what we saw was like like especially
jazz musicians but like musicians who
who listen
the game they play is to follow the
model and so they'll like I would see
guys or people women too sit down and go
like you know dum dum dum dum
and just wait and it's almost like
pinging the model with an impulse
response like what's this thing going to
do and then instead of trying to drive
it comes back and goes dum dum dum dum
right
and then and then the musician says oh I
see let's go up to the fifth and and you
get this really, it's almost like follow
the leader, but you're following the
model and then it's super fun and like
it's basically a challenge for the
musician
to to try to understand how to play
along with something that's so
primitive, right? But if you don't have
the musical, so basically it's the
musician bringing all the skill to the
table, right? So, like even even with
the the primitive sequence generation
stuff, like it's still been interesting
to see that it's it's the musicians with
a lot of musical talent and particularly
the ability to improvise and listen that
have managed to actually get what I
would consider interesting results out
of out of that.
So, yeah. So, it's become more of like a
like a call and response game than a
tool.
Yeah, I think so. I think it be and
that's partially because the model
the model's pretty primitive. I think
that we can um you know if we can get
the data pipelines in order so that we
know what we're training on and we can
actually do some more modern um
uh sequence learning um you know having
like like generative adversarial
feedback and things like that we can do
much better and even we have some some
stuff that we haven't released yet that
I think is better. Um but yeah, I think
as we make it better it'll be more of a
this model is going to give me some more
ideas from what I've done. Right now
it's more of a this model's kind of
weird, but I'm gonna try to understand
what it's doing.
Okay.
Both are fun modes, by the way. Like
they're both cool modes, right?
Yeah. I I mean, I've enjoyed like I'm
I'm definitely not a pianist. Uh I mean,
I've played guitar before and I I tried
to get a song going, but I I had trouble
with it. Um
we're sorry.
It's mostly my fault to be honest. Uh I
love the YouTube video.
Blame the user, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Uh the video where some
where that guy played a song with it.
That was amazing.
Yeah, that was cool. It was very cool.
Have you seen a lot of that stuff as
well?
Yeah, we've seen we saw like we haven't
I haven't well we haven't pushed the
sequence generation stuff much cuz we we
really wanted to focus on on temper. Um
but when we have released things and and
kind of tried to show people were there.
Yeah. We've gotten if you look on the
there's the magent there's an magenta
mailing list that's just like it's
linked you g.co magenta and if you look
around there's like a discussion list
which is like as flamy and spammy as
some discussion lists but a little bit
less so. It's pretty that you know every
couple weeks someone will put up some
stuff they composed with Magenta and
usually they're more effective if
they've layered their own stuff on top
of it or they've you know taken time
offline rather than in performance to to
generate but some stuff's actually quite
good. I think it's fun.
It's a start.
Yeah. I mean I think it's great. And so
how like you compared it to you know the
work you did in 2002. Um where has LSTM
gone since then? like you know you talk
about like you ended up doing this
project I saw in your talk that because
you kind of like failed at it a while
ago.
Failure is good.
Yeah. So the
there was a point in time I was at um a
in a at a lab called IDIA the Dalamole
Institute for Artificial Intelligence
and I was working for Jurgen Schmidt
Huber who's one of the co-authors. He
was the adviser to Seb Hawker who did
the who did LSTM.
And there was a point in time where
there were three of us in a room in
Mano, Switzerland, which is a suburb of
Lugano, Switzerland, who were the only
people in the world using LSTM. It was
myself, Felix Garris, and Alex Graves.
Among the three of us, by far, Alex
Graves has done the most with LSTM. So
he continued after he he finished his
PhD and he continued doggedly to try to
understand how recurrent neural networks
worked, how to train them and how to
make them useful for sequence learning.
I think more than more than anybody else
in the world, including SEP, the the
person who created LSTM,
okay,
you know, Alex just stuck with it and
and finally started to get wins on, you
know, in in speech and language, right?
And and I more or less put down LSTMs. I
started working with audio audio stuff
and other more like cognitively driven
music stuff at University of Montreal.
But like it worked finally, right? And
it it was, you know, like there's this
thing in music uh a 20-year overnight
success, right? Somebody like this
worked because he stuck with it and and
now of course it's
you know become like sort of the
touchstone for you know recurrent models
in time series analysis. it forms some
version of it forms the core of what
we're doing with translation. I mean
these models have changed right they've
evolved over time but basically you know
recurrent neural networks as a family of
models um um is around because because
of that effort of like it's interesting
right it's really there really were
three of us
and Felix went on with his life and um I
went on with my life and Alex stuck with
us it's kind of really one person
carrying forward you might get letters
from people saying hey wait you forgot
about me you forgot about me this is
this is a little bit reductionist
obviously there were more but it felt
that way at the time right
what was the break breakthrough then
that got people interested.
I think it was the same breakthrough
that got people interested in deep
neural networks and convolutional neural
networks. It's that these models don't
work that well um with small training
sets.
Okay.
And um small models
like imageet.
Yeah. That they're data they're data
absorptive and meaning that they can
absorb lots of data if they have it. And
you know neural networks as a class are
really good with highdimensional data.
And so as machines got faster and memory
got bigger, they they started to work.
So, you know, we were working with
really small machines and like working
with LSTM networks that were, you know,
maybe had like 50 to 100 hidden units
and then a couple of gates to control
them and trying things that had to do
with like the dynamics of of how these
things can count and how they can like
follow um time series.
So, you try to scale that to speech or
you try to scale that to um you know,
speech recognition was one of the first
things. This is really hard to do. Um,
so I think a lot of this is just due to
having faster machines and more memory.
It's kind of weird, right?
It's surprising that that would be it.
Yeah, I think it surprises everybody a
little bit.
Yeah.
Now the running joke like having coffee
here at Brain is sort of like like what
what other technology from the 80s
should we rescue? You know, like I mean
Exactly. Right.
AI's back.
Exactly right. Uh how far have you
pushed LSTM? Like you know um obviously
there's some amount of like text
generation that's that people are trying
out. um you know, have you let it create
an entire song?
No, we haven't because we haven't um got
the conditional part of it right yet.
So, I think um like LSTM in its most
vanilla form, I think everybody's pretty
convinced that it's not going to handle
really long time scale hierarchical
patterning. Um
and um I'd love it if someone comes
along and and says, "No, you don't need
anything but vanilla LSTM to do this."
But you know I think what makes music
interesting over you know even after
like 5 seconds or 10 seconds is this
idea that you know you're you're getting
repetition you're getting uh you know
harmonic shifts like chord changes there
there's a there there right
and um one way to talk about that there
there is that you know you have some
lower level pattern generation going on
but there's some conditioning happening
oh now continue generating but the
condition shifted we just shifted chords
for example and so um I think if we
start talking about conditional models
if we talk about models that are
explicitly hierarchical
If we talk about models that we can
sample from different ways, we can start
to get somewhere.
But I think um
you know
only a recurrent neural network is is is
you know it's it's it's not it's it
would be reductionist to say that it's
the whole answer and it's in fact true.
It's not the whole answer.
I I was thinking about how you were um
was it the TensorFlow or the IO talk
where you were talking about Bach? Um
oh probably um oh that we did stuff that
was like more Bach than Bach. Yeah, we
nailed it.
Yeah, that's like you start making
things that like are, you know, more
palatable is like I'll make the best
Picasso painting for you, but it's not
necessarily a Picasso painting because
it's not necessarily saying anything
precisely.
Right.
So, I think I think by analogy, so
first, in case it's not clear, I don't
believe that we made something that was
better than Bach, but when we put these
tunes out for like untrained listeners
to listen to, they sometimes voted them
as sounding more bocky. And I think it's
imagine like um what these models are
learning, right? They're learning kind
of the principal axes of variance.
They're learning what's most important.
Um they have to, right? Because they
have they're they have a limited memory.
They're compressed, right? So if you
sample from sketch RNN with with very
low temperature, meaning with like
without a lot of noise in the system,
you actually get what like if you want
to squint your eyes and and and break
philosophy is like the Platonic cat. you
know, you get a cat that looks more like
a cat anyone would draw, sort of the
average cat.
And I think that's sort of what we're
getting from these time series models as
well. They they're kind of giving you
something that's more a caricature than
than a sample, right?
Um so, so then in the creation of art,
like what are you um what are you
predicting is going to happen like as as
Magenta progresses? I think in um can I
make predictions that are on the time
frame of like 28 to 40 years when no one
no one will ever test in a thousand
years magenta is going to be the only
um joking aside I um
I I do believe that the machine learning
and AI will continue like will become
part of the toolkit for for
communicating and for for expression
including art. Mhm.
Um I think that in the same way I I
think that it's healthy for me to admit
that that those of us who are doing this
engineering won't almost by definition
know where it's going to go. We we can't
and we shouldn't know where it's going
to go. I think our job is to build um to
build smart, you know, AI smart tools.
At the same time, I want to point out
like some people find that answer boring
like it's a um it's hedging. But I do
think there are directions I can imagine
directions we could go in that would be
really cool.
For example, um thinking of literature,
right? Um
I think I think plot is really
interesting in stories and that that you
you can imagine that that we have a
particular way as humans like the kind
of cognitive constraints that we have
of like kind of limitations in how how
we would how we would draw plots out,
you know, as an as an author. And you're
not going to do it in one pass left to
right like in recurrent neural network.
It's going to be like sketching out the
plot and do we kill this character off?
But I kind of can imagine that
generative models might be able to
generate plots that are that are
really really difficult for people to
generate but still make sense to us as
readers, right? Like, you know, it's
think of it think if you flip it around
like I think jokes are hard because it's
really hard to generate the surprising
turns and and the the re like kind of
like you go in one direction and you
land over here, but it still makes
sense. And I can imagine that that the
right kind of language model might be
able to generate jokes that are super
super funny to us and that actually
might have a flavor to them of being
like, "Yeah, I know this joke must have
been machine generated because it fits
in so many different ways." Right.
Right. It like this high it like fits in
so many different ways and in a math way
like in a high dimensional space, but
it's super funny to us. Like like I
don't know how to do that, but I can
totally imagine that we would be in a
world where we get that.
I thought about it in the complete
opposite way, but that makes sense. I
was thinking about it um you know
training it to create pulp fiction like
that would be so simple in my mind like
you know just create these like airport
novels it can just like bang out the
plots. Um I mean that's probably where
we'll start. I mean I would love it if
we could write so so everybody
understands that's that's listening or
watching you know we we can we can't
generate a coherent paragraph right so
you know I don't mean we magenta I mean
kind of we humanity
like I can't write at all.
Um, it's really hard like and it all
hits it all I think it all hits at
structure at some level like you know
nested structure whether it's music or I
think there's like like an art plays
with geometry or color or something else
um you know it's it's it's meaning it's
you know it's nested structure somewhere
and and has the art world or you know u
I guess any kind of artist any kind of
creator have people pushed back in the
way that they're scared you know I
imagine when photography came out
everyone was pushing back saying like
this this might end painting because
it's about, you know, photography
captures the essence. But then it ended
up changing because people realized that
that's painting wasn't just about
capturing something, you know, capturing
an exact moment.
Certainly, um, the the the generative
art world, and we've seen lots of that.
Another researcher in in London, um,
someone posted on his Facebook something
like or he posted to us a tweet that was
like, "What you're doing is bad for
humanity." And it's like, really? like
he's making like new folk songs, right?
He's like generating folk songs with an
LSDM. This is Bob Sterm. I'm like, it's
probably not bad for humanity. So, yeah,
of course. But like what I love about
that is, you know, it's okay if a bunch
of people don't like it. And in fact, if
it's interesting, what art does
everybody like?
Zero,
right? Or it's really boring, right?
So,
you have this idea that like if you want
to really engage with people, you're
probably going to find an audience. That
audience is going to be some slice. M
frankly it's probably going to be some
slice coming up from the next generation
of people that have experienced
technology that are taking some things
for granted that are still novel to
someone like myself right
um you know and uh um but it's you know
it's okay if a bunch of people don't
like it.
Yeah cuz well when we were talking
before I was I was surprised that you
hadn't gotten more push back. It seems
to be like most people in our world are
just like okay whatever. It's like do
your thing. it's kind of opening up new
territory rather than it is like you
know challenging.
I think that I've gotten I've gotten
push back in terms of questions. I think
we have and I I think this is as a
community in Google and outside of
Google and outside of Magenta. I think
people are really clear that what's
interesting about a project like this is
that it be a tool not a replacement.
Mhm.
It's and I I I thought I think more I
think if we if we presented this as, you
know, push this button and you'll get
your finished music, it would be a very
different story, but it's kind of
boring. So,
I think it's super Yeah. I mean, it's uh
it's funny you mentioned Hacker News
because I was talking with uh one of the
moderators.
We love you, Hacker News. Be nice.
They're they're great. Like, you know,
it's just impersonal. It's so easy to
critique people. But uh I was talking
with Scott, one of the moderators, and
he was um he was wondering if you guys
were concerned with the actual like
cathartic feeling of creating music or
if that's just something you you don't
even consider right now.
I mean, as as people Yeah, of course.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think um there's a
couple of levels there.
I think you lose that if what you're
just doing is pushing a button and like
So
I think this is everywhere. The drum
machine is such a great a great thing to
fall back on. It is just not fun to just
like push the button like and make the
drum machine do its canned patterns. And
I think that was the goal. My sense of
the reading that I've done is just like
this will make it really easy, right?
But like what makes the drum machine
interesting is people working with it,
writing their own, you know, writing
their own loops or their own patterns,
changing it, working against it, working
with it. And so, um, you know, I I think
this project loses its interest if if we
don't have people getting that cathartic
release, which I believe me, I
understand what you mean. That's thing
one. The other thing I would mention is,
um, I if if there's anything that we're
not getting that I wish we were getting
more of is creative people people coding
creatively, right? We talk about
creative coding in like this kind of
handwavy sense, but like like like I
would love to have the right kind of mix
of models in Magenta and in open source
linking to other projects that you as a
coder could come in and actually say,
I'm going to code for the evening and
add some things. I'm going to maybe
retrain. I'm going to maybe I'm going to
hack data and I'm going to get the
effect that I want. And that part of
what you're doing is being an artist by
coding. And I think we haven't hit that
yet in Magenta. I I'd love to like get
feedback from whomever like in terms of
ways to get there. The point is there's
a certain catharsis for those of us that
train the model. You get the model to
train like you know it's like it's fine.
You you'll be bored if you just push the
button but feels good for me to push
that button because I'm the one that
made that button work you know. So
there's that right? You know it's a
creative act in its own right.
And and have people been like uh
creatively breaking the code like oh it
would be funny if it did this or
interesting if it did that? Um, a few
though. I think our code is so easy like
most open source projects need to be
rewritten a couple times and I think you
know we've gone through we're on our
second rewrite. Um,
is that if the code is brittle enough
that it's easy to break uncreatively,
then it's hard to also break it
creatively. And listen, I'm being pretty
critical. I'm I'm actually I'm really
proud of the quality of of the Magenta
open source effort. I actually think we
have, you know, well tested, well
thoughtout code. I think it's just a
really hard problem to do coding for art
and music and that you know if you get
it wrong a little bit it's just wrong
enough that you have to fix it and so um
you know we still have a lot of work to
do.
So then where does where does that like
creative coder world go? I I've seen a
lot of people that are concerned with
like even just preserving I think Ryzen
is doing the preserving digital art
project.
Um what direction do you think that's
going to go in?
Presumably a number of cool directions
in parallel. The one that the one that
interests me personally the most is um
is reinforcement learning and this idea
that um you know models trained. So
there's a long story or a short story.
Which one do you want?
Long story. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
So we know
it's not that bad.
So you know generative models 101 you
start generating from a model trained
just to um to um be able to regenerate
the data it's trained on. You tend to
get um output that's blurry, right? or
is just kind of wandery. And that's
because all the model learns to do is
kind of sit somewhere on the the big
imagine that the distribution as a
mountain as a mountain range and it just
sits on the high mountain.
Kind of plays it safe.
Yeah. Kind of plays it safe. All
t-shirts are gray if you're colorizing
because that's safe. You're not going to
get punished.
And you know, one revolution that came
along thanks to Ian Goodfellow is this
idea of a generative adversarial
network. That is a different it's a
different uh cost for the model to to to
to minimize where the model is actually
trying to counter you know create
counterfeits and it's forced to not just
play it safe right I don't know how this
is too technical
it's very interesting to me yeah this
was part of the talk right where you
like cut out the square in
exactly I saw that part
so another way to do this is to use
reinforcement learning as and and it
it's slower to train because all you
have is a single number scaler reward
instead of this whole gradient flowing
than than GANs, but it also is more
flexible. Okay, so my story here is that
the GANs are part of a larger family of
models that are at some level critical.
Everybody needs a critic and they're
they're they're pushing back and they're
pushing you off of your pushing you out
of your safe spot, whatever that safe
spot is. And that's helping you uh be
able to do a better job of generating.
We have a particular idea that you can
use reinforcement learning to um provide
reward for following a certain set of
rules or a certain set of heruristics.
Okay? And this is normally like if you
mention rules at a at a machine learning
dinner party, everybody looks at you
funny, right?
Like you're stepping backward.
Yeah, you're not supposed to use rules.
Come on, we don't use rules. But instead
of building the rules into the model,
like the the the AI is not rules, the
machine learning is not rules. It's that
the rules are out there in the world and
you get rewarded for following them. And
we had, I thought, some very nice uh
generated samples of music that were
pretty boring with the with the LSTM
network. But then the LSTM network
trained additionally using uh a kind of
reinforcement learning called deep
Q-learning to follow some of these
rules. The the generation got way
different and way better and
specifically got catchier.
What were the rules? The rules were like
rules of composition for counterpoint
from the 1800s. They were super simple.
Yeah.
Now, we don't care about those rules.
But there's a really nice creative
coding aspect, which is think of it this
way. I have a ton of data. I have a
model that's trained. I have a
generative model, whatever it may be. It
may be one trained to draw. It may be
one trained for music. And
that model is kind of tried to
disentangle all the sources of variance
that are, you know, that are sitting in
this data. And so it's smartly
generated, you know, it can generate new
things. But now now think like
as long as I can write a bit of code
that takes a sample from the model
Mhm.
and evaluates it
providing scalar reward anything I stuff
in that evaluator
then I can get like the generator to try
to do a better job of generating stuff
that makes that evaluator happy. It
doesn't have to be 18th century rules of
counterpoint, right? So you could
imagine like taking something like
sketch RNN and adding a reinforcement
learning model that says I really hate
straight lines and suddenly the model is
going to try to learn to draw cats
but without straight lines. The data is
telling it to draw cats. Sometimes the
cats have triangular ears with straight
lines but the model is going to get
rewarded for trying to draw those cats
that it can
without drawing straight lines. And
straight lines was just one constraint
that I picked off the top of my head. It
has to be a constraint that you can
measure in the output of the model.
But like musically speaking, if I could
come up with an evaluator that described
what I meant in my mind by shimmery,
really fast changing, small local
changes, I should be able to get like a
kind of music that sounds shimmery by
adding that reward to an existing model.
And furthermore, the model still retains
like the the kind of
nice
realness that it gets from being trained
on data. I'm not trying to come up with
a rule to generate shimmery. I'm trying
to come up with a rule that rewards a
model for generating something. It's
very different, right? So, I think
that's one really interesting direction
to go in is like opening up the ability
if you can generate scalar reward and
drop it in this box over here and we'll
we'll take a model that's already
trained on data and we'll tilt it to do
what you want it to do.
That kind of underlies a fear that
people have, right? Which is like what
happens when you can create the best pop
song
and and what do people do? And do you
have thoughts on like is a is that
possible and b what would the world look
like if that world comes to be?
I think that it is I had an algorithm
for doing this which is
which is for the best pop song for me
which is when we used to sell used CDs
it was usually like a two to one. Okay.
So every time if you have a thousand CDs
and you trade them in and you have 500
that you like better
then you just kind of keep going right.
You finally get that one. Exactly. um
hill climbing in that space. Yeah, I
think that um what I
so I'm not sure like part of me wants to
say people love the kind of rawness and
the variety of of of things that aren't
kind of predictable pop. But let's face
it, like people love pop music of even
the like there's a kind of pop music
that you'll catch on the radio sometimes
that isn't like like
most of your listeners are probably in
the same camp or viewers like
like there's pop that we love like you
know like I love the poppiest of Frank
Ocean's music I can listen to it forever
but then there's like just like there's
like the gutter of pop and so you know
can't even distinguish who the artist is
but like they play at the big festivals.
So I guess that kind of unasks the
perfect pop. I mean, pop is such a broad
thing. Yeah.
But yeah, I think like I can imagine
that with with machine learning and AI
at the table, we'll we will here's
another way to look at it. Like
some things that used to be hard will be
easy, right? And so we'll offload all of
that and if people are happy just
listening to the stuff that's now easy,
right,
then yeah, it's a problem solved and
we'll be able to generate lots of it.
But then what people tend to do is go
look for something else hard, right?
It's like the drum machine argument. So
you solved the you solved the metronomic
you've solve you've solved the
metronomic you know beat problem and
then what you actually find is that
artists who are really good at this they
play off of it and they're allowed like
when they sing to do many more like
rhythmical things than they could do
before cuz now they have this this
scaffolding they didn't have to work
with before
they just constantly break it right as
soon as you distorted the electric
guitar.
But I hope that's an honest answer to
your question. I mean your question was
a different flavor. It's like hey are we
really moving towards a world where
we're going to generate the perfect pop
song? M
um
yeah, I don't know. I don't think so. I
mean,
I don't feel like that's going to
happen. Um but, you know, maybe it
happens so quickly and then as soon as
we realize like, okay, this is how we're
going to break it. This is how we're
going to retrain ourselves. Yeah.
It can learn so fast that it's like,
okay, now I can do that, too.
Yeah, that's nice.
Then I can do that, too. Um, so then uh
one of like
what I was wondering is there like in in
you know the next like handful of years
is there like a holy grail that you're
working toward uh for Magenta like okay
now we've hit it like this is the
benchmark that we're going for.
There are a couple of um there are a
couple of things I'd love to do. Um, I
think I think compo composing creating
long form pieces,
okay?
Whether they're whether they're music or
art, I think is is something we want to
do. And this hints at this idea of like
not just having these things that make
sense at like 20 seconds of music time,
but actually say something more. that
that direction is really interesting
because I think that not only so let's
face it that would be at least more
interesting if you push the button and
listen to it but also this this leads to
like
tools where composers can offload very
interesting things
like some people some people I'm one of
these people I'm really obsessed with
like expressive timing I'm really
obsessed with musical texture
okay I I don't know what that is
oh no I just mean like um let's say
you're playing the piano in the in the
gray art face or the grace talk. You
were contrasting the piano play.
Yeah, you did your homework. Yeah,
exactly. I just watch a bunch of YouTube
videos.
So, you know, you know, if you listen to
someone play Wallace, it'll have a
little l to it. Or like
some of my favorite musicians like
Theonius Monk, if you're familiar, if
you're not familiar with Theonius Monk
Homework, go listen to him. He played
piano with a very, very specific style
that almost sounded lurching sometimes.
It was very, he really cared about time
in a way. And and so like if you if the
way that you're thinking about music and
composition is really really caring
about kind of local stuff, right? Be
very very interesting if you had a model
that would handle for you some of the
decisions that you would make for longer
time scale things like like when do
chord changes happen, right? So like
usually it's the other way around. You
have these AI, you know, machine
learning models can handle local
texture, but you have to have to decide
that. So um yeah, my point is if we get
to models that can handle longer
structure and nested structure, we'll
have a lot more ways in which we can
decide what we want to work on versus
what we we have the the the machine help
us with. Right.
And has this now um has it affected your
creative work or or do you still do like
creative like composition?
Yeah, so the I I'm I'm working here at
Google and you know this is like a coal
mine of work to do this project magenta
like every day. No, joking aside. Um,
yeah, as we're
Yeah. Plus two kids. Plus two kids.
Yeah. No, I basically I've been using
music as a as more of like a catharsis
relaxation thing. I don't I don't feel
like personally I've done anything um
recently that I would consider like
creative of a level that I want to share
with someone else. It's been more like
jamming with friends or like, you know,
just like throwaway compositions,
jamming like here's 10 chords that sound
good. Let's jam over it for the evening
and then like don't even remember the
next day. Um, and really trying hard to
understand this creative coding thing.
Like that's something else I've worked
on. A lot of it's just like I'll start
and then I'll get distracted. Um but uh
yeah, so that's sort of the level of my
creative output, I'm afraid.
Well, the creative coding thing, it's
seemingly I don't know. So many people
are looking for it in every venue and
it's so difficult to find people.
They're just kind of like one-offs now.
Yeah, I think that's right. It's so it's
so hard to have the right I think maybe,
you know, maybe we need the garage band
of this. It's like, you know, we need to
have like something that's so well put
together that it makes it easy for a
whole generation of people to jump in
and try this even if they haven't had,
you know,
like four four or five years of Python
experience or something.
I didn't know if that's what you were
alluding to when you were saying that,
you know, command line obviously not the
way to do it where it dumps many files,
but now it's an it's an API, right? And
like what what is the next step? That's
very obvious.
Try to make it try to make it more
usable and more more expressive, right?
Expressivity is hard in an API, right?
you know, it's like it's so hard to get
it right and I think it's almost always
multiple passes. So, um, we've got, um,
I think the API, the core API that
allows us to move music around in real
time in MIDI and actually have a
meaningful conversation between an AI
model and and multiple musicians is
there and there's just a bunch more
thinking that needs to happen, right, to
get it right.
Cool. So, if if someone wants to become
a creative coder or wants to learn more
about you guys, what what would you
advise them to check out? So I would I
would say the the call to action for us
is to visit visit our site. The shortest
URL is g.comagenta.
Okay.
Interest. It's also
magenta.tensorflow.org.
We can link it all up.
G.Core. And and like have a look at um
we have some open issues. We have um we
have a bunch of code that you can like
install on your computer and and hope
you can make work and maybe you will be
able to.
Um
and you know we we you know we want
feedback. We have a pretty active and we
certainly follow our discussion list
closely and um our game for
philosophical discussions and our game
for um technical discussions and uh you
know beyond that we just we're just kind
of keeping rolling like we're just going
to try to keep keep doing research and
keep trying to build this community.
Okay, great. Thanks man.
Sure. No, it's fun.