Title: The Best Consumer Startup Ideas Were Impossible Until Now
Video ID: Z4L4ZqL1xqQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z4L4ZqL1xqQ
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-11-28T15:01:09Z
Duration: PT39M36S
Views: 72089
Likes: 1202
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1214

Description:
Every major shift in consumer tech has a moment when it suddenly becomes accessible to millions. Michael Mignano helped spark one of those moments with Anchor, making podcast creation something anyone could do with a tap. Now at Lightspeed, he sees AI bringing a similar leap to music, media, and everyday apps.

In this conversation, he and Garry trace the arc from the early days of social audio to today's consumer AI boom—and dig into what founders should focus on as the next generation of creat

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

I think increasingly we're finding
ourselves betting on people [music] who
are just great at building products and
kind of trusting that maybe there's an
opportunity that we can't [music] see
that this person can through the
opportunity of AI. The hardest thing
with consumer is not only identifying
the trend and the team, but getting the
timing right. [music] Like when is this
thing actually going to tap into the
culture and be relevant with the culture
and that's [music] like almost an
impossible thing to predict. I just
think it's a great time to be betting in
any category.
I'm thrilled to be sitting down with
Mike Mignano, a partner at Lightspeed
Ventures. Before Lightspeed, Mike
founded Anchor, a podcast platform that
was acquired by Spotify in 2019. At
Lightspeed, Mike's invested in some of
the most legend companies in consumer
and in tech overall. Neuralink, XAI,
Suno and Granola. In addition to his
work as a VC, Mike recently co-founded
Obo Labs, an AI-powered learning
platform. Mike has a ton of thoughts
about consumer startups and how AI is
reshaping media and what founders should
be paying attention to right now. Mike,
thanks for being here.
>> Thanks for having me. Actually, love to
start off with your founder experience.
I mean, we're doing a podcast now, got
involved and built one of the major
pieces of infra that you know, everyone
uses. What was that like? Never intended
to build a podcast infra company
or even really a podcasting company
overall. My co-founder Nir Zukerman and
I when we first started building Anchor,
we were actually trying to make a social
audio platform. We had both kind of
fallen in love with podcasts. This was
back in 2014, 2015. Kind of like when if
you remember Serial and kind of
Grantland and all that stuff. We got
into it and we realized that it was
really hard to make them. And so we had
just built all of this photo editing
technology for mobile phones in this
company Aviary. And we thought, wait,
could we do the same thing for audio and
podcast? But at the time if you remember
like everything that was launching on
Product Hunt or the App Store around the
time, it was all social networks. So it
was like, oh, we need to build the
social version of audio. As if as if
that hadn't been tried before. And
through a bunch of pivots and starts and
stops and sort of near-death moments, we
ended up landing on the easiest podcast
creation platform. Basically, a mobile
podcast recording studio like we have
here, but in your pocket. And easy
enough to just tap a button to end up on
Spotify, Apple Podcasts, start
monetizing, you know, right away.
>> Yeah, that was sort of the 2014 era was
sort of that
right at that moment when people went
from almost all startups were consumer
and then they became all sort of
prosumer and B2B. It sounds like that
was actually part of your story as well.
It's like you started off, you know,
consumer like quite a lot of other
people and then you that was also sort
of the moment when the social platforms
were sort of coalescing.
>> Totally. And then the platforms closing
down a little bit. So, you know, the
explosion in consumer in
you know, sort of the 2008 to 2012 to
2014 period, that was an opening up of
platforms. And then as the consolidation
happened, you know, distribution closed
down, which sort of spurred, you know,
this move over to B2B.
>> Yeah, and and I think like our our
thesis was, you know, similar to how
Instagram had to made it really really
easy to create and share photos, but to
do it in a in a format that kind of
existed uniquely just in their own
platform, we wanted to do the same thing
for audio. We wanted to make it such
that, you know, on on your phone, you
could tap a button or you could hold the
phone right up to your ear, talk, maybe
do some light editing and then people
would just come into this app to listen
and interact with this content just
inside of Anchor. But what we found was
increasingly like over over many
iterations, people were good to create
content on Anchor, but when it came to
listening, it was like, why would I
listen to this like not great quality
audio in this other random app when I
have all these podcasts, like every
podcast in the world on Apple Podcasts
and Spotify and and I can listen over
here.
>> looking at sort of the uh
ranking listings of all the top consumer
AI startups today and you have sort of
two of the absolute top.
>> Yeah, and and and I think actually
Suno's an interesting one because I
think the thesis of Suno is actually
quite similar to the thesis that I just
described for Anchor. And and again, for
a number of these kind of media
platforms that came up and and in the
years you mentioned, maybe 2012, 2013,
2014. You know, if you go back to that
time or if you go back even earlier and
it's probably connects to some of the
work you did with with your startup,
it's easy to forget just how hard it was
to publish content, right? How to write
content and publish it on the internet
or to take a photo and put it in a feed
that millions and millions of people are
scrolling through or take a video and
upload it to YouTube. Like maybe, you
know, we'll just use Instagram as an
example. That made it not only really
really easy to create something
beautiful with minimal effort, but then
find a distribution channel where you
can start to get it out there, build an
audience. If you look back at the the
history of all the all the products that
have done this in one form or another
over the past 25 years, nobody's done it
for music. The reason, you know, we we
believe is that technology up until AI
did not make music creation easier,
right? The camera made photo taking
easier. The camera phone made photo
taking easier. The microphone made
podcasting easier. The camera made video
easier, but we never really had a
technology that, you know, democratized
music creation. And so the thesis with
Suno from the beginning was, well, now
with AI anyone can make music. You know,
you have like the most popular format
maybe in in the world. Everyone listens
to it. What happens if you can get
everyone creating it as well? Has that
one sort of evolved? I mean, initially I
imagine it's you know, then maybe they
were going after um
there's a ready-made almost like
prosumer B2B audience. You know, it was
When did they get started? Yeah, I mean,
it's still relatively new. The company's
more or less like 2 years old now.
>> god, yeah. So even 2 years ago
>> Yeah. I imagine like you have this tech
and you're like, how do how how are
people going to buy this or use it? What
kind of business are we going to build?
And you know, I imagine the obvious
start would be let's go after prosumer
creators, but you know, that's not sort
of how it worked out initially.
>> you you you should talk to Mike, he's
the CEO, but you know, if he were
sitting here, what I think he would say
was the vision has always been to enable
more and more people to experience kind
of that that joy of making music that
previously only professionals could. I
think early on when we were evaluating
it, one of the you know, a lot of the
behavior we were seeing, it felt a
little bit like a novelty. I mean,
ChatGPT felt like that
too.
>> But increasingly, I think what we've
seen and what we've observed is that
more and more people are using it to
make something that's meaningful to
them, right? Something that they're
serious about. They're they're becoming
creators, right? I think the other
behavior we saw as we dug in, which was
super fascinating, was people were
making music for themselves. They're
creating the music that then they will
go listen to, which I think is super
interesting. I can't really think of a
behavior we've seen like that in any
other format. Um like people don't write
for you know, to read their own stuff. I
think we're just such an early stage. I
mean, I think both of us
really Well, you're doing it. You're
actually finding some of the biggest new
categories
and then
>> you guys are doing it too.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, we're I mean, we're we're working
on it. I think this last batch I funded
enough to have an entire section. You
know, it's about six startups that are
all consumer Oh, wow. Yeah, which is
>> seeing a lot more consumer then? Yeah,
exactly. But I think we're a little bit
in the minority. Like how do you think
that is?
>> About consumer?
>> Yeah, I mean, every B2B like sort of ate
everything over the last 10-ish years.
>> think that's it. I mean, I think the
reality is there was a especially
pre-AI, there was kind of like a
playbook for B2B and SaaS.
And if you have the right team and the
right wedge, like you could you could
much more easily, I would say. I don't
want to like trivialize any of this
stuff, but it was it was more
straightforward, I think. But consumer
has kind of always been a little bit
more lightning in a bottle, right? And I
think the hardest thing with consumer is
not only identifying the trend and the
team, but getting the timing right.
Because so many things are are attached
to cultural moments. Like when is this
thing actually going to tap into the
culture and be relevant with the culture
and that's like almost an impossible
thing to predict. You know, with Suno, I
feel like
we kind of got lucky that we met the
team at a certain time and were able to
invest kind of just as it was inflecting
and
yeah, sometimes you just you just get
lucky and maybe overpay just to just to
be able to do it. But no, I mean, there
are obviously so many great consumer
investors out there that you look back
at some of these bets they made and you
just think, wow, like the timing was
impeccable. But the bottom line is we
have AI now and we have all these new
opportunities and things we can create
that we previously couldn't. So, I just
think it's a great it's a great time to
be betting in any category. I think
increasingly we're finding ourselves
betting on people who are just great at
building products and kind of trusting
that maybe there's an opportunity that
we can't see that this person can
through through the opportunity of AI.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. I guess the
framework that I've been using that I
hope turns out to be true, we'll see, is
um
like AI will actually increase
retention, but you're sort of still
subject unless you have like there
aren't new types of distribution yet.
Like it you know, sort of classically,
the death of consumer in like the 2013
era was about
the platforms like collapsing in, like
APIs closing down, like you have to
bring your own distribution, but the
platform won't give you more
distribution. You know, there was sort
of this one-time opening and then a
shutting and then suddenly you have to
charge, you have to have a subscription
consumer service. AI interestingly is
expensive. Yep. On the one hand, people
are willing to pay. On the other hand,
like it's, you know,
$20 a month or up to $200 a month if
you're doing work with it.
So, you know, basically retention will
go up. So, certain paid models will be
possible now that weren't possible
earlier. But then you still got to solve
the distribution problem. That hasn't
changed. That hasn't gone away. I do
think there will be new distribution
opportunities as AI becomes ubiquitous.
I mean, we're seeing this now through AI
new distribution channels will emerge
that people will exploit and find
opportunities in. But you're right, for
like a SaaS product or pure net new
consumer product today, you still have
to just go and build the distribution
yourself, which is arguably the hardest
thing. Yeah, it's funny. I was hanging
out with Eugenia from Replica. She has a
new startup called Character.AI, but I
was asking her about, you know, for a
lot of these consumer startups, you
know, how do you hire your head of
growth for a consumer startup? And she's
like, actually you can't
you can't hire them in the United States
anymore or in the West. Like they're all
in Eastern Europe. Yeah, I've heard that
a little bit as well.
>> interesting. It became like a lost art.
Like we forgot how to do consumer
distribution and we forgot how to create
the SR-71 and it's
>> [laughter]
>> like it's been so long, you know. I
think that, you know, her product is an
example. I think it's a great example of
you could see her and that type of
product borrowing from the previous
playbooks of of Instagram and Twitter
and maybe trying to leverage existing
channels distribution to get that out
there. Like I don't I don't know. What
are the ways that you can distribute an
app on an like an existing channel? I
think it's going to be basically it's
like toy apps right now, but it's very
well done. Totally. I mean, it's kind of
the kind of stuff you could do in code
gen tools today, but having it be
entirely contained to your mobile phone
is I mean, that's like an Instagram
moment right there.
>> 100%. Yeah, that's where I'm
[clears throat] at. Yeah. And then I
think like basically e-groups, Yahoo
groups, like all of these things were
trying to scratch an itch and you know,
you're just not willing to go through
like a customization step and group
software is just like the perennial
problem. But this is a perfect example
of what we were talking about earlier.
Like you would never without AI and code
gen, you know, two years ago you're
you're like, why would I why would I
invest in product hunt or that?
>> work on that right now, right? Yeah.
Yeah, but but now because of AI and code
gen, it's like, oh my oh my god, like
maybe there's actually a really
interesting opportunity here. Maybe you
and I have missed the the browser
opportunity now that we have Dia and
Comet, but I think back to
two, three years ago, I saw these
browsers and I just I just passed on the
opportunity cuz I'm like, oh, you you
can't compete with Chrome or Safari cuz
they're embedded in the OS.
And it's like, no, actually AI creates
like a really interesting opportunity
for the browser to be an investable
service. But if I were a consumer
founder going through YC right now, I
might be thinking to myself, what are
all the opportunities that have sort of
been written off that I can inject AI
into inside a consumer? What's funny is
you should try all the things and um
and then you're only limited by
distribution. And then the funny thing
is like,
you know, what do you what's your take
on
you can access, I mean, hundreds to at
least maybe maybe 10,000, maybe tens of
thousands of early adopters who are
anons on X. Yeah, exactly.
>> out to be
a whole way to, you know, get online and
get customers. I actually was telling
your your team before the show that
one of PG's essays was like a big it was
like a big big inspiration to how Anchor
actually survived and and not just
survived, but like ended up figuring it
out. We [clears throat] were dying. We
were running out of money. We had like
three months to before we shut it down.
We we told the team we're like, this
this isn't going to work. This product
is just kind of bouncing along. Like
it's growing, but it's not growing
great. And then we implemented this
framework. We're like, we have to hit
15% week over week growth every single
week from here on out for the next three
months.
And it forced us to challenge our
assumptions and it forced us to pivot to
something that we didn't want to pivot
to, but the users were asking for and
Oh, so there was pull from the market
for, you know, sort of going in that
Anchor direction.
>> Yeah, so the we wanted to do the social
thing. We wanted to be the the platform
because again, I that would have been a
bigger opportunity, but
what we were hearing from the users is,
hey, we love your tools. We don't want
we don't want to bring listeners over
here. We want them to be able to listen
where they're already listening.
Help us get our content on Spotify and
Apple Podcasts. And these these things
didn't have APIs at the time. There was
no way for us to port that content over.
And so we actually we built out a whole
framework where
we literally had physical human beings
manually creating RSS feeds and
submitting them to the Apple Podcast
store on our users' behalf when they
tapped a button in the app. User didn't
know it.
>> Yeah. But they would tap the button Do
something unscalable. Yeah, do something
that doesn't scale and then scale it.
Exactly. And that worked and we only got
to that because we had this rule that we
had to hit 15% week over week growth
every single week and it was
and it was startups equals equals
growth. And then otherwise like don't do
it or do something else. Yeah. Yeah,
yeah. And every every every week it was
something else. Like what are we going
to do this week to hit the growth?
>> What do you think changed? I mean, I
guess before implementing that, the
default for startups is well, you have a
bunch of money in the bank, you have
some users and then the classic trap
sometimes is, oh, well, we have some
technical debt. We're going to take a
month just to like work down the
technical debt, which is basically like,
you know, treading water or like slowly
sinking into the water and then you're
drowning. I I think I think you don't
realize
you're drowning until you kind of like
look at the calendar
and you're like, okay, this is the date
where if we don't figure it out, it's
over. And like really staring that in
the face and being like, okay, we
actually have three months to figure
this out. And yeah, I think there is
this trap that happens often, especially
now where startups get overcapitalized
and they never never feel that pressure
and they feel that they can just keep
going forever.
>> Yeah, there's this other aspect. How
many people were you at when
>> We were about like eight.
>> Okay. Yeah. So, we could get everyone in
the room and we could be like, this is
going to happen. We are going to fail
unless we don't figure this out.
>> But if you had raised like,
you know,
today's seed and you know, you had three
times more money and maybe you had, you
know, hired up and had like twice the
size or three times the size of team and
you couldn't fit them in a room. Yeah,
that would be harder. Although maybe we
would be spending it differently because
of AI. Maybe we would be maybe we would
still have a small team. Maybe we would
be investing more in marketing and
distribution, TikTok influencers or
something. I think our burn would
probably be higher, but we wouldn't
necessarily be a bigger team. Yeah, I'm
hoping that some of the labs start
experimenting even more with
distribution. Like you saw that with the
GPT store at OpenAI a little bit, but I
think that was a little bit of a failed
experiment. Like I think they might have
even removed the GPT store or maybe it's
still in there. It doesn't feel like a
supernatural way to make an
app. Like a GPT doesn't really feel like
an app in some sense. Clearly they still
want to chase this opportunity though,
right? Like it feels like multiple times
they've announced
partnerships with companies or like
recently didn't they announce
integrations with
Spotify and all these other
products that you could invoke
within the command line. You could
imagine a world in that that turns into
a platform and anyone can integrate. I
don't know how you would solve discovery
in that sense, but Yeah, I mean, I'm I
think there's something there around
MCP, but it's such a mess of an
ecosystem. Like it just just barely
the integrations just barely work. I'm
sure I will stop looking at it at some
point in the next couple months and then
magically in like 6 to 9 months when I'm
not watching, it's actually going to
work really really well. I mean, some of
the consumer things that we're seeing
are literally taking large data sets
that are somewhat hard to get at and
then just plugging them into LLMs.
>> What's an example of that? I mean,
there's a company called Nori in the
current batch that it's literally Apple
Health dropped into
LLMs. Yeah, Dave Zirup, yeah. Fellow
podcast yeah, he he did Chartable and
sold that to Spotify, so. I think that's
really interesting actually. I think I I
think
I think that's an opportunity. We
actually invested in a company called
Doctronic.
Which is right now doing, you know, kind
of medical triage similar to what you
can do in ChatGPT today, but you know,
they have a model that's that's trained
on
gigantic corpus of health information
and data and, you know, medical
research. And you can imagine a world in
which similarly like you're getting your
your medical records in there and you're
able to chat with it. I'm doing this
today just in like a Claude project, but
it's super manual, right? Like uploading
all this stuff. So, I think Nori sounds
super interesting. My dad went to the
hospital and
he was fine, but he, you know, passed
out. He'd never done that in a
restaurant [clears throat]
and we went, you know, hurried over to
the hospital and
you know, I logged in with his Kaiser
login to get all of his Oh, wow.
>> I could see the labs come in on the
website, so I downloaded them PDF,
uploaded it to ChatGPT and then it just
told me exactly what was going on even
though like the emergency room doc
hadn't come by, but the funniest thing
was like, when he did come, I asked my
three questions and then actually helped
get him a better standard of care from
that.
>> That's amazing. Cuz
I was like, well, had you thought about
this? And you know, I half expected him
to be like, don't don't use ChatGPT on
me, but it seems like
>> doctor appreciated it?
>> The doctor was like, oh, yeah, that's a
good idea. We should check for that,
right? I'm sure they're seeing this all
the time now. And yeah, you have to
wonder, are they welcoming it or are
they like, come on, please, enough with
the ChatGPT. [laughter]
But I mean, I think it's that good and
then And in distribution now, so. One
area thinking a lot about is is social.
Interesting to see Sora at least. Sora I
think is really [clears throat]
interesting. I kind of think of it as
in a way the end of social media
or like the the last the last phase of
social media. I I I currently bucket
social media into like three phases. The
first is true social media where you
know, companies are building up social
graphs. You know, people are following
each other, content is being distributed
based on who you follow. And so you
follow your friends and maybe some
random influencers and then when they
make content, you get served that
content and it's like pretty efficient.
Some of the content is relevant to you,
some of it isn't, but it kind of works.
And then the second phase is like the
TikTok kind of I I call it
recommendation media where they figure
out what you like and creators make
content and then they program that
content against your interests.
Sora to me feels like this third the
start of this third phase where
eventually they don't really need
creators to make content, right? Yes,
today people are prompting, but you
could very easily imagine a world in
which you're just coming into the feed
and the content is just being created
immediately, dynamically on behalf of
you. And I think that's really
interesting interesting in a couple
scary ways, but obviously there are also
some interesting opportunities. The
thing that I like to think about in this
last phase is what is the what is the
role of the human to help kind of shape
that experience. Obviously
one of the roles is just to consume and
let the model train on your interest,
but maybe the more interesting thing and
we've sort of seen hints of this
with Sora. I think Sam published a blog
post that kind of hinted at this is kind
of the the creation and distribution,
potentially monetization of name and
likeness and uniqueness. Oh, yeah. It's
like
when you cameo somebody on Sora, maybe
that person is getting compensated some
way. Maybe brands are are servicing
as cameoable. You talked about
distribution earlier. Like that could be
a new That maybe is the new form of
distribution in social
where you're sort of like injecting some
uniqueness or personality or likeness
into a model that will get then get
distributed through no sort of manual
human creation at all. That feels like
the next fit. It's a little It's kind of
scary because there's probably no like
actual pure human creation in that
model, but There's the prompting.
There's some art in the prompting.
>> Maybe, but does that just go away,
right? Like
eventually why do you need that? They
[clears throat] just know what Gary
wants to It's just going to be the auto
AI slot machine. So I'm a little bit
terrified of that, but I also think that
there's probably going to be some
interesting
opportunities. Um
And I and I'm totally expecting
that TikTok and Instagram will start
having
pure AI generated content and eventually
get to this place as well, but all in
all I I I do wonder if we're in kind of
like this third and final phase of like
human created media. Yeah, it's a little
terrifying.
>> If you use Sora, it it's a very
promising, super funny, but also
extremely frustrating like 80% of the
time. You mean on the output, what you
get out?
>> Yeah.
>> That'll get better. Yeah, it'll get
better, but also the mobile app itself
it's clear that they're experiencing
crazy GPU scaling issues, so it's still
very early.
>> App Store. It's crazy. Yeah. It is funny
to see XAI and
Meta sort of like struggle to try to
capture that vibe.
>> I think Cameo was the feature that
really did it for them, but I also
noticed that they didn't really invest a
lot. Maybe it was intentional, maybe it
was just prioritization in some of the
graph stuff we mentioned. Like it almost
seems like that's not going to be
important.
You know, it's more going to be about
we just know what to program for each
user. Right. It's like this person seems
to click like on all of the Shaq cameos
for some reason. That's me. Those Shaq
cameos are good. Every everyone's cameo
in Shaq. So yeah, I don't know. I don't
know what happens to social media and
I'm not totally sure yet what the
opportunities will be for builders
there. Yeah, distribution in the end. I
mean even TikTok. I'm hopeful that
ChatGPT comes around and realizes like
that was one of the most amazing things
that TikTok did and you know, that's
what the YouTube algorithm does today.
Those are the most potent places to get
distribution.
>> Right. Right.
>> I mean X I think X is there. Like thanks
Nikita, he's doing a great job. He's
doing it. He's changing up the feed. He
created the web view. Yeah.
Got to love the new web view. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah, maybe the model is the
distribution then like we're saying and
and and maybe similarly how for TikTok
it became about obviously the videos and
you can create a video, but you could So
like you could let
creators pull from the song the song
catalog. You know, Instagram has things
like
stickers and filters and things like I
don't know. Maybe the model is a new
place
for some form of creator distribution.
It's not your video, it's something
else. It's your likeness, it's your
brand, it's a meme, right? That others
can then invoke through the model. So we
talked a little bit about media and then
a lot of people watching who might be,
you know, just starting their builder
career. Is that like sort of the model
for consumer founders in the future? You
should people be creators? I don't know
whether or not people should be
creators. I mean, I'm not saying they
shouldn't, but it is also it's time
consuming. I mean, you're sitting here
in the set. I don't know how many of
these you do a week, but I'm sure it
takes up a chunk of your time and I do
think there is a new consumer playbook
for distribution that I previously
maybe maybe a couple years ago kind of
maybe was too dismissive of and now I
almost feel like it's table stakes,
which is
leveraging creators. Maybe it's
TikTok influencers, you know, Reels
influencers. Whatever kind of creators
you can you can tap into to reach some
massive scale of distribution. It almost
feels like you have to be doing that
now. Yeah. And what it can drive in
terms of downloads or installs or
sign-ups
is crazy compared to
you know, the early
growth we saw from consumer startups
five years ago.
>> Yeah, I mean this is literally the
definition of organic then. When you say
organic, like ultimately the most potent
form of organic is X feed, YouTube feed,
TikTok TikTok. Yeah, and it's actually
not organic if you think about it,
right?
A lot of these companies they're they're
figuring out kind of what works on
TikTok and then the TikTok algorithm
takes over and does the work and puts it
in front of a million people. It's not
it's not really organic, right? Like
organic I would say is
you built some incredible product and
there's this word of mouth dynamic where
everyone and their friends are talking
about it's just growing.
But just because it's not purely organic
doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. I
think everyone Correction, it's not
organic, it's non-paid.
>> It's non-paid.
>> Well, you you still pay. You pay for it
in your time and your mental space.
>> the you pay the influencers or the
creators or whatever.
>> Right. When you're paying someone else,
like the reason why that's interesting
for consumer products is it's a
mispriced asset generally still.
>> Exactly.
>> I mean Mr. Beast is not a mispriced
asset. He's like getting his value for
like he's you know, but it does seem
like the mispriced assets for sort of
the creators with like a thousand to
10,000 followers.
>> Right. And if you can wrangle up enough
of those, you can get some real scale.
Yeah, I mean, I think I used to be
dismissive of this as a tactic cuz it
felt inorganic to me, but now I think
it's table stakes. I mean all of the
best consumer startups that are pitching
us, they have these crazy growth charts
and they're all doing exactly this to do
it.
Now there's obviously then the question
of what's the retention like, is anyone
paying, what's the funnel look like? And
if the funnel is trash,
it's you know, it might not be So you
need both. It might not be a viable
investment. If you're a bad builder, but
you're a good troll, then you still
build nothing. But if you're, you know,
enough of a troll marketer who's
actually got the goods, then you could
build something pretty big.
>> Huge, I think. And I think the reason I
was previously dismissive of it is
because I just assumed that at some
point it would go away. Like if you're
tapping into this inorganic channel that
you don't control, at some point it's
going to turn off or it's going to do
something else, but it's been years now.
Yeah. It seems as reliable as ever, so
back to the original question, maybe you
should be a creator, maybe you
shouldn't, but you definitely should be
leveraging creators and these
distribution channels that creators tap
into to get
crazy amount of eyeballs on things. You
you have to. The big question I I see
founders asking a lot and I'd love to
get your perspective on this is should
you wait until you have product market
fit or some level of stable retention
before you start doing the inorganic,
you know, social distribution play. So
would you encourage a founder to seek
distribution before they've found
product market fit? I mean, maybe as a
side project it's it might be useful to,
you know, start an anon account. An anon
account that um
just to learn like
how do other people think? What do
people click on? And then Oh, that's
interesting. Then it's like a background
process that you can call on later. A
lot of the time we spend with especially
consumer founders at YC is helping them
with their their launch and, you know,
how do they talk about it? What's their
launch video? When they meet someone in
in person setting or an investor or a
potential user. Like what do you say
literally in the first 10 or 15 seconds?
It's like first you have to let someone
know what the heck it is. And then right
after that, you have to make sure that
they know that what you're doing is
awesome in some way. Like that you're
worth spending like, you know, that was
10 15 seconds and then it's worth at
least a minute conversation. And if you
can make it to a minute, you might have
like this amazing like 10 20 minute
conversation. They might try your
product. They might tell their friends.
They might, you know, they might invest.
Like all these different things happen
and it sort of comes out of being
like perceptive, good communicator, like
kind of funny.
>> Yeah. That's pretty interesting and and
the idea of doing it
doing that or doing some of that,
learning some of this as an anon is
really interesting because you just
lower the stakes. You're not really like
burning anything. I'm you know, I'm
thinking about
how many times have you heard like oh
don't don't do your big
marketing push or your press
announcement till you're ready because
you'll never get these users again. You
know, you'll like you'll like burn the
opportunity. But if you're doing things
like testing from an anonymous account
or you know, testing a TikTok influencer
strategy even that like there's always
going to be more eyeballs on Twitter you
can get in in on TikTok you can get in
front of and so
maybe the lesson is you just should be
practicing that you should find a way to
be practicing this stuff with lower
stakes even before you're ready to
launch or you're ready to like you know,
blow the thing up because figuring this
stuff out is going to be hard. Yeah, so
taste is taste matters and there are
lots of ways to develop that taste and
>> Yeah. Like it or not you've you know,
sort of got to
put on your fighting gloves if you're
going to especially do the X thing and
it might actually be worth it. I feel
like there was a lot of talk maybe 6
months ago a year ago of kind of taste
as a moat. It's becoming easier to build
products because of AI. So whatever you
build you got to have great taste and
great great craft to be able to stand
out. Um you know, I think Granola was a
great example of this. I think the
question is to what extent is that
now a durable asset given we've seen how
aggressive some of the labs are. Like
can taste really stand the test of time
or is it really just a thing to give you
a first mover advantage? Yeah, I I guess
I don't know yet. I mean
>> Every version of the model it has bigger
and bigger model energy. Yes.
>> some bigger and
>> [laughter]
>> it's got some BME these days, you know,
like Opus 4.1 is
uh it like feels vast. Going back to
Sora I mean
touching on this this topic a little bit
like
kind of surprised me a little bit
because it's a new product. It's a new
app and it's good.
>> Yeah. You know, I think there was a
belief among some startups and founders
that um
you know, as long as you're not doing
exactly what ChatGPT is doing or exactly
what Claude is doing like you'll be okay
because that's where they're focusing
their energy into these products. But
Sora is kind of proof that no, these
labs like they have the taste and
capability and the horsepower and the
execution to build and ship net new
products that also might run you over. I
think the point is though all the more
reason why like you got to have taste.
You got to be willing to put your
product out there but you have to like
we're in this environment that is just
so hyper-competitive. Like you have to
you have to move fast. You have to be
aggressive. You can't just kind of like
sit back and iterate and like wait for
your moment. I mean the machines don't
quite have taste of their own yet. Like
that's what the evals are for. Most
people are in these consumer scenarios
even they're just they're writing
prompts and then they're
trying to give a certain experience to
the end user and then there's still you
know, a craft to that. Totally. So
Mike, you're one of the most legendary
consumer AI investors and
I think a lot of people out there would
love to know like what are you seeing?
What would impress you? What you know,
what would get over the line so that
they could be
you know, get the chance to work with
you? There's a huge opportunity right
now to
re-examine opportunities that have been
previously overlooked. You know, I
mentioned earlier that we recently
invested in a mail app a category that I
think we previously would have ignored
because it's been a graveyard typically.
But AI has presented brand new
opportunities and I think we're seeing
spaces like that over and over again.
Like these these services that maybe got
a lot of investment and building early
on in terms of like the internet or
maybe like
advertising and things like that that
we've we've just like moved on from as a
as an industry because we consider them
baked and and done. And I think AI is
presenting an opportunity to just
completely like rebuild a lot of the
stack that that we've already built. I
would also encourage people to think
about what are the large data sets that
exist either sort of
that are publicly accessible or that are
private and personal to someone that if
you layer an LLM on top of it or maybe a
photo model or you know, an image model
or video model or music model like what
are interesting things that you can do
with these data sets that have sort of
been been untouched. You know, we talked
a little bit about health data and going
into the doctor's office like that's a
huge opportunity. Obviously a lot of
people are building for that right now.
But what are some of the other data sets
that no one has really like put AI
around and and given you access and
insight to that you haven't really
thought of before? That kind of gives me
an idea for a request for startup a
little bit. I mean there's just a lot of
data and it's in your phone and it's I
mean frankly in your medical records.
It's just it's in Apple Health.
Simultaneous to that like there are
great startups like Mem Zero that are
kind of trying to be like a memory layer
but like inside the system of record,
you know, inside someone else's app. It
feels like there's some space in here
around like an enabling tech where you
want to layer that
basically knows everything about a given
person. I mean and then you could even
break down that that down even further,
right? Like there's probably a bunch of
really cool things to be built on top of
your camera roll. Yeah. Yeah.
>> know what they are. And maybe they're
social experiences, right? But if we
look if we used AI to kind of look at
your photos and the things that are in
them, maybe the places you've been maybe
your geo-locations. You could build an
interesting thing on top of that.
>> would know who you hang out with, who
you spend time with. Like are you into
you know, do you spend a lot of time
with your family? Are you an archer?
Like what your favorite beer is? Like
there's probably all kinds of stuff
that's like implicit to that.
>> Yeah, Dennis Crowley just
launched something Dennis Crowley is the
founder of Foursquare, you know. I still
use Swarm. Yeah, amazing consumer
product builder thinker super creative.
You know, he just launched something
where when you put your AirPods in kind
of AI goes to work based on your
geo-location. So you know, it it might
know because you've you've done it a
bunch of times that you like really good
coffee or margaritas and then if you're
near something it's going to tell you.
It's just going to like chime into your
ear
based on your previous history. So like
I just think there's a lot of
opportunity to take this this memory
this this sort of like personal
information that you're talking about
and break it down on a bunch of
different levels
run it through AI and create new
consumer experiences. Aside from that
you and your co-founders are starting a
new company as well called Obo. How did
you decide to work on that and you know,
how did you pick that idea? Yeah, so I
think again this is another opportunity
that AI I think presents and that is
that is education. I mean that the
highest level premise is that
we've spent billions maybe trillions of
dollars to invent artificial
intelligence and obviously there's
amazing opportunities that are coming
out of that. But what if we sort of took
that artificial intelligence and
invested it into human intelligence and
obviously a lot of people have been
talking about this for a while. AI is
going to be a great tutor. It's going to
be great at teaching you things. Um but
nobody's really gone in and built the
product for that yet and so so Obo and
and it's available now obo.fyi.
Um it is a product that anything you
want to learn it will magically create a
course for you on that subject in any
format you want podcast, you know, long
form lecture.
It'll create the study materials for it
and over time you know, to
more to the point that we're talking
about with personalization and data it's
obviously going to know how you like to
learn in terms of the format but it's
going to know what you already know and
so each subsequent lesson is going to
get more and more personalized and then
therefore more efficient at teaching you
because obviously the way in which we
all learn right now it's like extremely
one-size-fits-all. All the content is
the same. It's kind of a blunt
instrument that's just kind of like
forced upon you whether it's reading a
Wikipedia article or you know, going to
college or whatever. It's just
one-size-fits-all.
But AI presents an opportunity to highly
highly personalize education and get
better and better and smarter and
smarter the more you learn.
And so the hope is that we can literally
make humanity smarter through AI. In my
opinion and in my experience the way to
build startups it's to take these large
service areas where there's kind of
obvious opportunity and yes, you start
with a point of view. But like your
point of view may be wrong.
>> Yeah. And then you iterate, right?
>> punched in the face and then you alter
your plan.
>> Yeah, you're still like kind of pointed
at the same North Star but you're just
you're just taking a different path. I
mean that's that's what we did with
Anchor. We're like we want to
democratize audio. We think it's through
social audio and short form voice notes.
Oh, nope. It's not. Like let's add more
tools. Oh, that wasn't it. Let's add
distribution to Spotify. And I think
that that is a recipe for a
a successful startups. Like take a
really ambitious space
point in a certain direction
and just keep iterating to find the best
path until you get there.
>> Amazing. Mike, do you want to give a
brief plug for your podcast? Yeah, so
when AI kind of exploded a few years ago
we at Lightspeed did did the thing that
every VC does and we started a podcast
and the whole idea was to talk to people
that are building in the space but then
after a few months or you know, whatever
we realized that frankly I got bored. I
was like I'm having the same types of
conversations. And then so a friend of
mine Sameel Shah was like why don't we
just go outside and record a podcast and
we'll make it like Anthony Bourdain
Parts Unknown or Comedians in Cars. So
we tried it out and we had a blast. The
audience loved it as well. People are
like oh, this is cool. This is
different. And so uh now we've launched
a new podcast called Out of Office. It's
going to be fun. And you're going to
come on, right?
>> Yes. Can't wait. Watch out for that one
real soon. Well, we're out of time but
Mike thank you so much for hanging out
with us. Really appreciate it.
>> Yeah, thank you. This is fun.