Title: Unknown
Video ID: z7S7Kf88jog
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z7S7Kf88jog
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: Unknown
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 503

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Hi everyone. I'm so excited to be here
today to share the story of uh Shop Tiki
and my journey here. For those of you
guys who don't know, um Shopi lets you
shop the world's most unique boutiques
around the world. It used to be that if
you lived in Dallas and you wanted to
shop a store in Los Angeles or New York
or Paris, you literally had to buy a
plane ticket. uh the stores weren't
online and even if they were, you just
couldn't find them. So, what we did is
we brought them online and created an
online online destination for amazing
shoppers like yourself to go and
discover really cool stores and find
unique one-of-a-kind products. So, my
story started in Kyrgyzstan, just around
the corner from here. Um, and I moved to
the States at the age of 17 when I uh
joined my mom who's musician. I spoke no
English. Hopefully you guys think that I
learned a little bit since then. Um, I
went to Welsie College, girl power. So
awesome to be here today. Um, so I went
to Welsie and my first job out of school
when I graduated was working at Goldman
Sachs as an investment banker. Crazy
hours. Um, I loved it because I learned
so much, but I also got to travel a lot.
And every time I would travel, um, I
would end up shopping. Surprise,
surprise. I would find five minutes to
go discover the city through this local
uh really cool places and I would buy a
dress or plates for as a gift to
somebody and everybody would be like,
"Oh my god, where did you get this? It's
so cool." And so I was kind of confused
when I would go online after that to
find the stores that they weren't
online. So I was very frustrated, but I
was working 247, so I had no time to do
anything about it. So after Goldman, I
went to uh Harvard Business School. And
so while at Harvard, I finally had a
little bit of uh breathing time to
figure out why the stores weren't
online. It was so weird to me because
you had Etsy that was, you know,
creating this marketplace for artisans
and then you had Metaporte that
aggregated this huge, huge brands. Why
wasn't there an online destination for
unique brands and unique boutiques? Um
and so I started investigating. So my um
second year of business school, I talked
to over 800 stores. They everybody was
telling me, "Hey, we are great
merchandisers." I would say, "Hey, where
do you buy things? How do you buy? How
do you plan?" They really knew how to
buy products that women wanted, but they
had no idea how to put them online. They
all tried Shopify and it was so hard for
them. They tried to take photos with
their iPhones. They would come out
unprofessional. They, you know, tried to
bring those photos and drive traffic.
Nothing would work. So the internet was
this like big thing, big scary thing for
them. And so I saw it as like a perfect
synergy because I loved shopping at the
stores. I love the inventory they were
cur curating. But I had no idea how they
did it. I was not a merchant. I'm not a
buyer, but I could figure out the scary
thing that is called internet. Um so I
was like, okay, let let's do this. So
the lesson number one, I'm going to do
I'm going to have about five takeaways.
Not about exactly five. I'm going to
have five takeaways for you guys that I
hopefully uh will be helpful as you
build your businesses and you think
about your life and career. So, um if
you forget everything I said today,
which you'll probably do that, um
remember this one takeaway. The takeaway
number one is talk to users. That one
year that I spent talking to over 800
stores has been the most helpful thing
in starting and running shops. We still
go back to the notes that I took while
talking to those boutiques because we
were able to build exactly the solution
that they needed. We weren't sitting
there and coming up with a solution. We
just asked them why aren't you online
and what can I do to actually build the
solution that you will use? So, as you
uh can probably guess, shop is a
marketplace. So, it's a two-sided
marketplace. There is supply which is
the boutiques. So after talking to 800
of them, I was very confident that I can
build a solution that they will be happy
with. But I wasn't sure if me and my
friends are the only people that wanted
to shop these boutiques. So I was like,
okay, let's test it. I didn't want to go
raise money because to me, putting your
own reputation on the line until you
knew that it's a huge business was a
very difficult decision. So at that time
I graduated from HBS with a lot of loans
because I um you know financed that
whole myself. Uh I had about $10,000 in
savings in my bank account. Um and I was
made a Warner at my best friend's
wedding at my best friend's wedding in
Jakarta in Indonesia. So I figured if
there was ever a chance I'm going to
build a website for $10,000, it's going
to be by finding engineers in Indonesia.
So while while doing all this made of
water duties and by the way Indonesian
weddings are like a week long so there
was a lot of duties and a lot of
ceremonies. In between the ceremonies I
was asking every person do you know any
developers? They're like what are you
talking about? Um but it was successful.
I actually did find um this amazing
development shop that was willing to
build I think the first site for $8,000.
uh which was scary to do that because I
had about two $2,000 to live for the
rest of the shop takes time. I didn't
know when I was going to raise but um I
paid them the money and they built this
amazing prototype a private beta site
and about October that year you know I
graduated said no to all this offers
that were going to help me pay down my
debt. I said no because in life you have
to do what you're really passionate
about. So I went with shop tiques. I
built this website. While I was building
it, while they were building it, during
their day, it was my night. I was
working at night. And then during the
day, I was trying to talk to press and
get more users and get the stores on
board. Um, so it was kind of a 247 job.
And so in October, we finally launched
and Women's Ware Daily wrote the story
about us. And by the way, this was a
team of one and a developers in
Indonesia. So I had this all of a sudden
women's wear daily writes about shops
and we overnight get 12,000 people on
the wait list trying to get in and shop
shops. So I was like well it seems to me
that shoppers also want to shop unique
boutiques. So um to that point going
back to the takeaway number one talking
to users it was pretty clear to me that
there were other people in addition to
my friends and relatives and me who
wanted to shop unique stores. I was
working out of a co-working space and uh
this company called Tutorree they they
become friends and so they're they came
to me and they said right at the same
time and they said hey do you know what
Y Combinator is I was like no no idea.
Um they're like you are awesome they're
awesome you need to apply. I was like
okay I'll apply. I mean, and I was
working 247 to do my startup. So, I had
absolutely no time to research the fact
that single founder non-technical may
not be a good idea to apply. Um, so I
just applied and I just put my head
down, did the application, send it off.
And so my lesson number two for you guys
is always ask. If you don't, the an the
answer is always no. If you don't ask,
the answer is always no. If I didn't
apply to Y Combinator, I would have
definitely not gotten in. And I'm glad I
didn't have time to do the research
about single founders, non-technical
founders, and a combination of both. So,
I applied and I got in and that changed
the trajectory of shopiques and
trajectory of my life and it's been the
best decision I've ever made in my life.
So, always applies, always do things.
And I apply this rule to everything in
my life. I think two weeks ago I I
emailed Warren Buffett. He hasn't gotten
back to me yet, but if I didn't emailed
him, the answer would have definitely
been no. So, I'm still waiting for you,
Warren Buffett. Um, so always do, always
ask. So, here we were. Uh, we just
launched private data. I I applied to Y
Combinator. We had 12,000 people on the
wait list, just me so far working and
this Indonesian developers. Um, a week
later, I get an interview to Y
Combinator. They say, "You can't tell
anybody. I'm like really secretive
flying to San Francisco for this
interview. Um I meet incredible group of
people and I'm like, "Oh my god, this
would be so amazing to get in." And so I
get a phone call that night um and they
said, "You're in." It was truly the
happiest moment of my life. Not only
because I was getting into my cominator
and the people were truly exceptional,
but also I heard that they give you like
$17,000 or something to do your business
and I was living on the floor of my
friend's apartment. So I was like, "Oh
my god, I'm getting my own bed. That's
kind of awesome." So that January, I got
my own bed in the in my own room too in
a Sunny Villa house with five other
people who were working at Y Combinator
at the time on their ideas um in the
same batch as me and you were working
among the best coolest people and it was
so incredible and so we started Y
Combinator. Um the takeaway number three
is a little bit interesting but uh to me
it's very important and I really want a
lot of you guys who are starting
businesses or doing this right now to
think about it. Be honest with yourself
on what kind of business you guys want
to build and what kind of business this
business can be. Right from the
beginning and as I got into my cominator
I knew I wanted to build a multi-billion
dollar business. It's if you want to
build a lifestyle business, it's
phenomenal idea and you should do it.
But don't go raise money from venture
capital firms that we're going to have
uh needs to have a high return and and
and exit the business in 5 to 10 years.
I wanted to build a huge business. Um
but I knew that technology that I've had
at the time, I just simply couldn't. So
I, you know, on the website that $8,000
I can't imagine scaling to a
multi-billion dollar business. So
luckily I was at VC. So I approached
Paul Graham and the team and I said hey
guys I I need technology team I need to
build this you know something inhouse.
So they helped me tremendously. The
first people that I brought on board um
I actually brought them in as a
technical co-founders. So with two
people I brought in as technical
co-founders and they started building
this awesome website and off we were to
the huge future. I had a little bit of
time while they were building the site.
So I went to fundra. I decided that that
was the time for me to fundra and uh we
raised a round of funding seed funding
from Andre and Horovitz and Greylock and
Benchmark and SV Angel amazing team uh
really knew what marketplaces are. So
remember what kind of business do you
want to build and surround yourself with
is the same network. They've invested in
Open Table, they invested in first dibs,
all the businesses that really similar
to Shopics in terms of the marketplaces.
Um so off we were we launched the
website. We were you know um publicly
launched. We raised the round of
funding. We moved back to New York. Um I
put my head down. I'm working in the
user acquisition, right? Growth is
everything, right? It's all about
growth. But um I would have a big press
and then my website would crash on every
six person. Um I would do something else
and literally like the technology wasn't
scaling. So for founders who are
non-technical out here, I'm sure you can
relate that the scariest thing is when
you're doing everything you can but this
one bit that's at the core of your life
is failing. I mean there are so many um
lonely cries in the bathroom. I can't
even tell you. I learned that it's okay
to cry in the bathroom floor uh in the
in the public building. It's like who
cares? Um so,
but I also learned that uh the
technology co-founders that I brought in
weren't the right fit. They just simply
didn't have the skills to take this
business to where I wanted to take it.
And so, I had to fire them. It was very,
very hard. Uh but you have to do what's
right for your business. And so, I fired
them. And I at the time we literally had
no engineers and um at Chuck Tikes and
it was very scary because if anything
went wrong um it would be very scary.
And so I called my friend who was my
best friend at Y Combinator. He was
working on a different company at the
time and then he left it since since YC.
And so I said hey you need to come you
need to come to New York now because I
don't know what I'm doing and there's
like literally no technology people here
and this is a technology company. Um, so
he flies in, jumps on the plane, starts
building this amazing technology. One of
the smartest engineers I know. Um, eight
months later, I had to fire him too. Um,
and this is actually one of the hardest
decision I had to make in my entire
life. Uh, because he was my best friend
and he was one of the smartest people I
knew. But the reason is he was focused
on technology and he really didn't care
about what users wanted. He wanted to
build this incredible, incredible
technology, which by the way is very
important if you're just technology
business, but I had customers. I wanted
to build what they needed and what they
wanted. And so it was a really, really
tough decision, but it had to be made.
Um, and so my takeaway number four for
you is make your own path. I think that
the problem the reason I was bringing
you know I did it twice um two sets of
teams as technical co-founder is because
I was looking for that shining uh prince
charming to jump on his horse and bring
in and become this partner in my
business and I was seeing all these
other companies having co-founders that
were technical that really understood
them and really thought about life the
same way. But it's okay that you're
going to make your own path. It's okay
not to have a technical co-founder. It's
okay to figure out it the other way.
Since then, I hired an incredible CTO
who is not my co-founder who is a CTO of
Shoptick.com, which is a big role on its
own. And he has goals. He has
compensation tied to those goals. He
promises and he delivers. And it sounds
very corporate, but it works for me. It
is my own path that made sense to me.
the site doesn't crashes. We grew over
700% last year and the site didn't crash
once. And so bringing in the team that
made sense to me, who is not co-founder,
who is going to work and there's, you
know, real goals and it's it was really
important for me and it took me a year
and a half, two very very tough
decisions uh to get there and a lot of
lessons and and cries along the way. And
I really hope you learn that it doesn't
have to be like your friend or neighbor
or other company even at YC. Make your
own path. Make it your way. Make it the
right way for you. Um and so you know
one of the other thing that I want to
make sure I leave you guys with is the
fifth takeaway which is believe and be
passionate. Um, you know, there was a
lot of times when at 2 in the morning I
would be doing payroll and it wouldn't
feel like anything because honestly I
needed to get growth on users but I was
doing this boring payroll or taxes or
something else and it didn't really feel
like it was just awful and you just if
you didn't see the light at the t at the
end of the tunnel at that time you
couldn't have gone through those moments
and there's a lot of tough choices that
you have to make along the way. You just
have to really, really, really believe
in what you do and surround yourself and
be yourself passionate about what it is
you're building. There is no time in
chop ti history and I'm going to show
you some gross curves here. Uh there was
no time at Shop Tiques that I did not
believe this is going to be a
multi-billion dollar business. Not for a
second because one is I was passionate
as a customer. Second is I surrounded
myself with amazing people who build
marketplaces who knew that this is going
to be a huge huge business. And if you
don't believe in from the beginning, go
find another idea, right? Um because
there are so many ideas that are great,
but that passion and belief is what's
going to take you to the next level. And
so,
thank you guys. And remember that every
single day when you're making hard
decisions. Here are some growth curves.
Um for those of you that are building
marketplaces, I want to say I'm sorry.
It's a very tough business. Um
marketplaces are awesome though because
after about two years uh they uh
actually uh hit the inflection point at
which point you start growing
exponentially. So here's Etsy, two years
of slow growth, here's eBay, two years
of very painful growth and when you look
when you look at on the growth curve it
feels very different when you live it.
So remember that and surround yourself
with the people who have lived it,
right? So some of our investors invested
in eBay and they knew that two years of
not that high of a growth is okay,
right? Building technology and here are
shops for you guys. Um so we turned
profitable and uh we grew 700% last
year. Thank you. Um I wouldn't be able
to do this without my team. So when I
talk to you about being passionate and
really believing um if you don't
surround yourself with people that are
super passionate and really really
believe in what you do every single day
your employees as well especially if
you're a single founder you'll not make
it because you come in right if there's
two co-founders great one is having bad
time bad day one is having great day you
guys will cheer yourself up or three or
whatever however many if you're a single
founder if you're having a bad day
there's no another person to tell you to
have a great day uh Before this talk, my
whole team emailed me and said, "We're
there. You're going to be great." Having
that support of your team and building
an incredible people that believe in the
idea and really passionate about is
going to get you that extra mile. I'm
going to leave you with this one quote
that is my favorite quote of all times.
Um, and it's by an incredible person,
Jeff Bezos. Um, when you're 80 years old
and in a quiet moment of reflection,
narrating for only yourself the most
personal version of your life story, the
telling that will be most compact and
meaningful, will be the series of
choices you have made. In the end, we
are our choices.
Um, it's a very profound quote, so I'm
not going to do any kind of narrating
for that. I I can't make do it justice.
But just remember that every single day
you make amazing amount of choices that
will impact your life, everybody's life
around you. Believe in what you do. Uh
because every single one of you here
will start amazing businesses, will
contribute to the world and every one of
you can do what I did. I mean I was born
in Kyrgyzstan. I didn't know I needed to
learn English. So you guys already far
away far ahead of me. Um so let's all
together make an amazing um amazing
amazing life and amazing um country. So
one last thing because if I don't tell
you this uh my VP of marketing who is
very passionate about Shopics will kill
me. Uh please all follow Shopics on all
social media
and also download our app on March 18th
when we launch. But thank you guys so
much for having me. Such a pleasure.