Title: Michael Kratsios: Inside the White House's AI Strategy
Video ID: zLUZclThLhU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zLUZclThLhU
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2026-08-18T21:30:38Z
Duration: PT39M44S
Views: 10276
Likes: 168
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1225

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Michael, welcome to Y Combinator uh
Startup School. Uh this is uh we've got
an amazing uh crowd here. It's been an
amazing day and um
really excited to talk about
uh
AI policy and your role at the White
House with President Trump. Um but I
wanted to tell the audience a little bit
about your background. Um
uh first of all, Michael Kratsios is
director of the White House's Office of
Science and Technology Policy. He's the
president's top advisor on uh science
and technology and one of the key
architects of America's national AI
strategy.
He previously served as the country's
chief technology officer in the first
term uh for President Trump, where he
led the early federal AI initiatives.
Uh he was the chief operating officer of
Scale AI in between government tours.
So, he's seen the frontier from both
inside a hypergrowth startup and inside
the White House.
And so, we're going to talk about how
Washington actually thinks about AI.
Um
so uh
I want to get in you know, you you
have gone from the government to the
private sector and you went back into
the government, which is actually not a
common thing and I think it speaks uh
uh to your character, Michael, because
the
um
you know, public service is not easy.
And it is a sacrifice. You know, you
could be out making a lot more money uh
doing you know, God knows what. Your
your choice of roles, given the level of
connections you have, the uh your
background.
Uh why do you choose to do this work?
>> You know, to to me I I fundamentally
believe that uh
American leadership in these emerging
technologies
is
one of the most critical questions of
our time. For the American people to
have all these benefits that AI is going
to offer, we have to make sure that we
have a regulatory environment that
allows that that succeed. And to me, I
think even a little bit somewhat
selfishly, I think there is there is um
no place where you can work on bigger
problems than the US government. Even at
the the biggest tech companies in the
world, you're never going to be dealing
with problems of this of this scale. So,
um being able to work on that is is
something that that I find very
rewarding and very fulfilling. Um and I
just deeply believe that we we have to
find a way to keep winning. And uh and
the government, you know, can can either
help or they can unfortunately kind of
screw things up. So, so being there to
to try to put in the right direction is
something that I enjoy doing every day.
>> Let's go rewind the clock. How did you
even find yourself in this place? I'm
really actually curious, you know, at
what point did you in your life did you
know that you were going to be
passionate about science, technology,
this this whole field? Like, I don't
know, like 14-year-old or even earlier
Michael Kratsios and up until sort of
the age of
uh the audience, like kind of early 20s,
uh even late teens. What What You know,
tell me about that part of your life and
kind of how you got gravitated toward
this type of work?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I I'd always been sort
of obsessed or interested in in
technology. I would like follow all the
Steve Jobs uh you know, keynotes every
year obsessively. I I still remember in
college when the first iPhone came out.
I'm dating myself here, but it was uh it
was a this like amazing moment. We're
like running around and talking to our
friends about it. Um
to me, I was I was not an engineer in
college. Um so, to me, I I always wasn't
quite sure how to sort of like manifest
my sort of extreme excitement for
technology into something I could do as
a career, but um ultimately ended up in
San Francisco and and worked for for
Peter Thiel for for almost 7 years. And
I'm working with him and and working um
with a lot of the companies that he
invested in, that's when it all kind of
came together where um you know, over
the course of my time there between 2010
and 2017, you know, as we were looking
at more and more companies in the
portfolio, what kept coming up was this
question about regulation. So, whether
you were thinking about um Lyft and the
challenges that they were having at a
sort of like state and local level,
SpaceX with the challenges they were
having for sort of launch permits and
things with the FAA and and and
Department of Commerce were doing, no
matter what kind of industry you're
looking at, there was this government
angle where the government's policy
actions could be ones that could
actually unlock technologies. So, when
the president won and I had the
opportunity to join the administration,
it you know, my first sort of instinct
was like, "How do we like look across
all the rules that we have and make it
easier for innovators to build? How do
we get drones flying for commercial
drone operations? How do we get
autonomous vehicles on the road? How do
we get drone deliveries to happen?" And
those are things that that the
government can unlock.
>> What's something surprising about how
technology policy actually gets uh made
and
that would surprise everybody in this
arena?
>> Yeah, I I think um you know, typically
what people who haven't really worked in
this space, what they don't realize is
that these decisions are extraordinarily
federated. There isn't just like one or
two people in the White House who decide
something.
Um kind of a a a a blessing, I think, of
the US system is that there isn't one
agency that does technology. You know,
we have a health agency, you know, we
have a defense department, but there is
no like technology department. Um and
what that means is a lot of these these
tech sort of issues are spread out
across multiple agencies. So, you have
equities from national security
questions you may have to um sort of
commercial-oriented questions to like
core science and technology research
questions. And to make good policy, what
the White House has to do is bring all
of these agencies together. So, whenever
like take for example drones. If you
want to make sure that the rule is right
to allow for commercial drone
operations, you have to make sure that
the FAA has the right rules in place,
but also that the people who oversee our
nuclear weapons are happy so that drones
aren't aren't flying over nuclear sites.
Um
Help take us into like the last week or
so. Really this week felt like a noid
kind of a noisy week in AI policy. You
saw the the letter, I guess, that
dropped uh was that Friday morning from
a lot of the uh larger companies. Y
Combinator had signed it, but also Y
Combinator helped organize the letter uh
that you were one of the recipients on
actually on Wednesday uh evening that
was uh fighting for really advocating
for uh
the government to not clamp down on uh
open weight models. And the the uh
and the impetus for that, the energy
behind it was sort of this buzz and
rumor lots of kind of speculative uh uh
worry that the White House was on the
verge of uh doing an EO that would have
kind of restricted or clamped down on on
open source. Can you talk a little bit
about that? Like how uh
how connected to reality is some of the
uh the
stuff that you've seen on Twitter in the
last uh week or so. And then is the
um you know
what what is what is the White House's
policy? I I I actually spoke with uh the
Secretary Lutnick last night at the
Correspondents Dinner, and he said that
uh
you know, we White House strongly
supports uh open source. And so this is
a great audience to kind of clarify what
what is the White House's position on
open source, open weights. Uh can you
talk a little
>> so Luther over here has turned into a
little mini reporter. He's got uh
he's got lots of people following his
Twitter, but I I I will say I think what
the secretary said yesterday is the same
policy that we had on page one of our AI
action plan that was released last July.
And for those of you who aren't
necessarily tracking this, the the US
strategy for artificial intelligence was
released in in July of last year. It was
something that I co-authored with uh
with David Sacks and uh and Secretary
Rubio. And one of the the number one
thing, the first thing that we talk
about in chapter one is a commitment to
open source. And this idea that if the
US wants to lead in artificial
intelligence, we have to have a vibrant
closed and open source ecosystem, and
that's the only way they can all work
together. So, to me, I think I think
that's number one. But, I think what
what what this week really showed and
what excites me about the job that I'm
doing is we have to have these
conversations. And if if DC is in a
vacuum isn't hearing anything from the
startup ecosystem or even from big tech
ecosystem or even from financial
services or all these different
industries, we can't make the best
decisions. So, to me, I find it
inspiring and I find extraordinarily
like tactically like practically helpful
for weeks like this to happen because it
sort of forces a lot of the community to
come up and say like what do we as
Americans believe in? And we as as as
policy makers can can internalize that
and make sure that we're we're setting
the right the right policy going
forward.
>> That's the democratic process in action,
I guess. It So, every founder here is uh
building with AI. And where you sit in
Washington, what do you think is the
single biggest gap between how
Washington sees AI AI and how this room
sees it?
>> I think the um in in in Washington when
people think about AI, uh it is a a a
sweeping technology that covers
everything from the perception of Middle
America, their perception on things like
data centers,
um to questions about AI and healthcare,
uh to questions about job loss and how
it's going to impact the labor market,
um
and then also there's a conversation
about how it's going to impact um new
company growth and and productivity
improvements across across our tech
ecosystem. So, I think what what
typically is different in Washington is
you can't you you can't sort of separate
those conversations. It's very hard to
like not think about, you know, the the
the the labor implications of of AI boom
or or not be worrying about how, you
know, generally Americans don't really
love data centers. They pull horribly,
they don't want them in their backyard.
But, everyone in this room knows very
very well that we need as much computers
we possibly can spread across the
country. So, for us I think we end up
having to balance a lot of this stuff,
which is is kind of is kind of our job
and and but we can't, you know, we need
the input from the startup community to
know at least that element of the
conversation and we make sure that gets
done right.
>> And
governments are usually regulating
industries that have settled. AI seems
to be kind of reinventing itself every 6
months. How do you write the rules for
something that is moving so quickly?
>> Yeah, I mean the answer to that really
is
you don't want to set very
firm red lines in the sand because they
ultimately don't work. And I think the
best example of that in the world right
now is the EU AI Act. So, when we were
in the first Trump administration, the
EU went through a lot of fanfare to and
spent many years putting together this
EU AI Act. And yet you this this rule
essentially like regulation for Europe
was passed and finalized before ChatGPT
was either was ever invented. So now
going forward, all of these large
language models and everything that's
happened since November of '21 when when
ChatGPT came out, you know, have to
abide by this rule that was written
before LLMs were even a thing. And that
shows how challenging sort of the the
the situation is if you try to set the
line too firm to begin with. And I think
our own administration has challenged
with this. The Biden administration set
a specific hard cap compute threshold
for if you're if you do anything above a
certain threshold, then you have to do a
bunch of disclosures to the government.
You know, over time having these sort of
like firm
red line thresholds, I mean they do not
they do not, you know, stand the test of
time and a lot of what we do is to make
sure that that any type of of action is
is can move along with the frontier. And
and what's been proven very much so by
the government is that once it sets it's
it's very hard to reset it. So, we are
very cautious in trying to and try to
set these hard thresholds.
>> It seems like a lot of the policy
conversation around AI has to do with
safety and risk. What do you think is an
AI risk that
builders underrate and that you think is
probably overblown?
>> Um I think, you know, I think that the
the risk of the day, at least today,
there's there's two main ones. I think
the first one is obviously the the cyber
risk presented by by the Mythos moment.
Um and ultimately the analysis that the
labs had to do when they were putting
out Fable on what kind of guardrails are
put in place to make sure that sort of
the the the the the more exquisite,
powerful, you know, quote-unquote
dangerous capabilities of of Mythos were
were appropriately limited for for the
for the release. Um but again, the
challenge with a lot of these cyber
capable models is the same model that is
able to sort of do something nefarious
is the same model that can be very
valuable in hardening an existing
system. Um so, there's these these
inherent tradeoffs that happen. Um and I
think that the the second risk that
always kind of comes up that, you know,
you know, we think is is sort of coming
over the horizon is this is this sort of
the biological risk question. I mean, I
think I think my sense is I think it at
the moment and it has been for many
years a bit overblown. I think people
were sort of like shouting about the bio
problem back in '21, '22. Hasn't been an
issue for 3 years. Um but I think we
definitely definitely need to build the
right infrastructure to run the right
test and eval processes on models as
they as they creep, you know, past the
frontier.
>> Got it.
Um
a lot of tech policy conversations end
up dominated by the five biggest uh tech
companies. And I should say this is one
of the reasons that uh Y Combinator with
a handful of other companies a couple
weeks ago helped spin up a a trade
association called the Little Tech
Association.
>> Mhm.
>> Um because it seems like sometimes, you
know, I live in Washington D.C. you
know, that there's you do
as well obviously that they we're
actually on the uh the flight this
morning
uh uh at
at 8:00 together.
Um
I think that uh it feels like kind of uh
Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon Truman
Show sometimes in Washington that like
there's every you know every position
paper you read or speech you hear is
like you you think gosh that that has
some some big tech influence behind it.
How does the
two uh two-person company even have a
fighting chance if if those large
companies are writing the rules? How
does the White House kind of make sure
that the kind of company that's sitting
in this room uh get's heard?
>> Well, the most important thing that I do
is talk to you as often as I possibly
can. But, I think I I think the reality
is there there's there's a great number
of institutions that that help support
and stand up for for for little tech.
And I think you know, I think generally
government is quite is quite cognizant
of of of sort of the influence of a lot
of sort of like large players in in
every industry. And I think this isn't a
problem or this isn't a situation that
is uh is is only occurring in tech. It
happens in everything from, you know,
energy to health care to whatever it may
be. And I think what we try to do very
hard is there's lots of mechanisms where
you can get input um from a wide variety
of folks. So, the traditional sort of
request for proposals or you know,
request for information process where
you can get anyone to kind of submit
comments um And and for us I think I I I
think it it's actually working. I mean,
if you if you think about one of the one
of the major priorities that you know,
the president him spells himself spoke
about in the speech that he gave when
our strategy was released in July of
last year was this question about um
about uh preemption of state laws around
AI. And and and and the fundamental um
thesis there is that if you create a or
allow for the creation of a patchwork of
regulations, meaning there's one set of
regulations for AI in California,
another one in Maryland, another one in
Texas. You know, the big tech guys, they
can deal with that. I mean, Google can
harm can hire an army of lawyers and
they'll figure it out and they'll be
fine. Um but for all of you out here,
that's just that's just not going to
work. And the president stood up and say
like, "No, we have to have one national
standard for AI so we can make it easy
for anyone who wants to build an AI
company to know what the one set of
rules is and build their company like
that way." So I think that's an example
of of us really taking that to heart.
>> Well, I will say I I uh commend the
White House for kind of continue and
really it started with uh the first
Trump term that uh the the bipartisan
antitrust project with respect to uh Big
Tech. US V Google was started under uh
the first Trump administration. Uh US V
Apple is being continued. Hopefully the
the reports that that might uh settle in
imminently are are incorrect and uh FTC
versus Facebook, uh FTC versus Amazon,
uh these are cases that uh that uh the
the Trump uh DOJ and FTC have continued
and I think it's uh that coupled with
the president's own uh usage of the
phrase Little Tech and championing
Little Tech companies. I I think the the
thing I think yeah, when
probably when we met years ago, I said
we just have to make sure that Little
Tech has a seat at the table. And so I
just uh as you go back to Washington,
kind of you know, making sure that we're
we're doing everything we can to to make
sure that that Little Tech has a seat at
the table.
>> It's important to me. I mean, I spent
mo- most of my 20s here in San Francisco
working at a venture firm. I mean, I I
understand how challenging it is to to
build these companies and and I think,
you know, what what makes the US so
special is that there is no place in the
world
that is better to do a startup than
America. It is easier here and it um and
the opportunities are just unbelievable.
So, as as a public servant, what I think
about every day is how do we protect
that ecosystem? How do we make it even
easier? How do we create all the
opportunities for all of you to create
great companies and succeed? Everyone in
the world is clamoring to come to
America to build companies. There's
something very special about here that
we must preserve.
>> Is there a version of AI regulation that
protects consumers,
but it doesn't hand the incumbents a
moat?
And and what does that look like
concretely?
>> I I I think back to what I was saying
with the sort of one what like one
national framework. I think it's all
about having regulatory clarity and ease
for all sizes of of companies.
Um and if we can work with Congress to
do something like that, I think that
would be that would be the biggest boon
for for for startups.
>> The United States' advantage has always
been that anybody can start something.
>> Mhm.
>> To your point.
I mean, we are uh unique in that
respect. This is the greatest place uh
in the world to to build a company.
Uh what would you tell a founder here
who is worrying about compliance costs
and that locking them out before they
even start?
>> You know, I would tell them that there's
probably no administration history more
committed to reducing regulations than
the current one.
Um our sort of uh Office of Management
and Budget, which sort of that runs kind
of our regulatory process, the guy was
running it is this guy called Russ
Vought and he his life's mission has
been to eliminate as many regulations as
possible and that is what we think about
every day. To me, in the tech
standpoint, you know, when we talk about
regs,
you know, the biggest question to me is
how do we remove barriers to innovation?
I talked a little bit about this. To me,
there was a you know, there's kind of
two ways to think about uh about the
world of regs. There and about
technologies. And sometimes a lot of
people talk about this in Washington.
There's there's there's technologies
that are either born free or born in
captivity. And for each of those
categories of technology, you have a
different set of regs to look at. So,
born free technologies are ones where
there aren't regulations on the books.
Things of like the internet when it just
started. And those are the types of
technologies you have to preserve. You
have to be very very very thoughtful
about whether or not you're going to
introduce new regulations into that
domain because people can sort of build
anything and strive in those areas. So
those born free technologies you want to
preserve.
And then the born in captivity
technologies are technologies where
you're building something but you can't
commercialize it or you can't take it
out to market unless you get some sort
of government approval. So think about
um commercial drone operations. You guys
could go build an amazing drone in your
backyard. You could build the most
amazing software to connect sort of a uh
a vendor to a to a customer and set it
all set up. But to actually close that
transaction legally and have the uh and
have the drone fly, you can't do that
unless you get a waiver from the FAA. So
those are the types of technologies that
we will relentlessly think about how to
sort of remove those regulatory barriers
or make it much easier to do so. I think
earlier some of you may have heard um
from the founder of Boom Supersonic. You
know, I've been obsessed with supersonic
flight for years. I think it's the most
obvious sort of like in your face
example of technological stagnation. We
had the Concorde flying years ago. We're
flying slower than we were back then
today. Absolute tragedy. So in that
situation, you know, he can't get his
his supersonic plane to fly unless the
rules are set such that there is a noise
limit instead of a speed limit um
over the United States for example. So
in those kind of born in captivity
technologies that's what we relentlessly
try to figure out how do you kind of
remove those barriers and make it easier
for these technologies to work.
>> I'm I want to go back to a question that
I've I've I want I forgot to ask at the
beginning which is like about your day
in day out role. Like you're not only a
uh
the director of the Office of Science
Technology Policy and maybe you can talk
a little bit about this when I when you
answer but also a special advisor to the
president. So like what is I mean
there's probably not a typical day, but
what is like if you had to kind of
average the days across, like what is a
typical day look like? What time do you
show up to work? There's a lot of people
don't realize in the White House there's
like the White House is a sprawling
complex, so there's like where the you
know, there's the Oval Office obviously,
but then there's uh something called the
EEOB, the Eisenhower Executive Office
Building, like where how big is your
team? Like
>> Yeah.
>> What is it just kind of help us
visualize what it's like working at the
White House and what your job is
actually like day-to-day and are those
is the is the role of a uh director of
the OSTP
>> Mhm.
>> is that always a special advisor to the
president? I think that's like a kind of
an extra additional role you take on.
So, talk about that a little bit.
>> Um so, I think maybe the most abstract
way to think about it is and I mentioned
this a little bit earlier, the federal
government is made up of all these
agencies. You have HHS which does health
care, you have Department of Defense
which does defense, you have Department
of Energy that runs kind of energy in
our national labs, and um for any type
of policy that you do, you essentially
have to get concurrence or have some
sort of conversation among all of these
different agencies. And there's only one
building in the whole world that can get
all these agencies to come together and
have that conversation and bring some
resolution, and that's the White House.
And generally there's there's sort of
four categories of policy that get
sorted out in the White House. There's
national security, then there's a
council that runs that process, there's
domestic policy that's sort of like
health care and immigration type stuff,
and there's another council that runs
that. There's economic policy that does
sort of like tax and other like econ
policy, and then there's us that does
science and technology. So, essentially
there's sort of four policy councils and
there's sort of four policy leads and
each of us kind of run policy processes
on the topics at hand. So, in our
portfolio we obviously have AI that we
talked about a lot, but we do things
like like quantum, like civil nuclear
energy, biotech, space, you know, and
for each of those portfolios on my team,
I have one or two people that help run
that portfolio. So, I have a space team
of about three guys, and they coordinate
space policy across the government. So,
they bring NASA in, they bring the
Department of War that has a bunch of
satellites for national security
purposes, and they all sit together and
kind of sort out sort out the policy.
So, I would say on a typical day, you
know, the the general things that you do
are one or sort of stakeholder meetings.
So, Luther comes and says, "Oh, hey
guys, you know, you got to look out for
little tech, da da da da da." And I
listen to him. And then and then go
>> Don't settle the Apple case.
>> [laughter]
>> So, there's [clears throat] there's a
kind of the stakeholder stuff. And the
second category of work is just the
blocking and tackling of doing policy.
It's like work the the president has
said, you know, like we, you know, have
to you know, have to make sure that
commercial drone flight is happening.
So, like let's figure out how to do it.
Let's push FAA to change this rule, you
that kind of stuff. Bring the agencies
together and do and do that that kind of
work.
>> [snorts]
>> Um so, those are kind of the two big big
buckets of stuff. And then the third is
doing things like this, like sharing the
president's message and talking to to
people around the country, understanding
kind of what their challenges are and
and trying to see how we can be how we
can be helpful. To your point on the
director versus the the assistant to the
president, um the uh with within the
White House, there's um there are folks
called commissioned officers, and they
sort of have three three ranks. There's
an assistant to the president, which are
sort of the most senior advisors to the
president. There's about 20 or so of
those people, and and that's what that's
the title that I have, but that's one
that's sort of the the chief of staff
has and others. Uh and then there's
there's deputies, and then there's
specials. There's kind of this like
hierarchy where we all kind of flow up
to support the president.
>> So, practically, what does that mean?
Can you just wander into the Oval Office
whenever you want? How often are you
interacting with the president? And and
like how does it how does it function?
Because it it is like I think people, um
you know, don't necessarily appreciate
how many people work work at the White
House.
>> so I think um not getting too much in
the weeds and mechanics, but I as I
mentioned, there's there's these policy
processes where you bring all the
agencies together and you start working
on a problem. And you can imagine that
is kind of the bottom of the pyramid and
they try to like sort out the problem.
And if they sort it out, then it's
great. Then policy is over and it gets
executed. If there is disagreement and
like someone's like no, no, no, no, like
this making this up like some guy at the
Department of War is like no, I don't
like this drone policy because I don't
want drones anywhere near military
sites. That has to be way more
stringent. So it's like if they can't
agree, then it like kicks up to the next
level. So then you can imagine like more
senior people at all the agencies kind
of chat. And if they can't agree, then
it gets up even higher. And then if it
if they can't agree, then it ultimately
goes up to to the president for a
decision. So what you try to do is like
limit the the decisions that get to the
president because he has limited amount
of time and he should be focused on the
things that are most important to to the
country and to and to the national
priority. So for us when there's certain
high stakes, you know, AI or technology
issues that that the president needs to
weigh in on, um we bring them to him. We
have a conversation and he and he weighs
in and makes the ultimate decision.
>> Well, part of the reason I I I ask this
uh and I wanted to kind of unpack that.
I wanted people in this audience to
appreciate how busy Michael is.
>> [laughter]
>> Because
I mean, truly
we owe a debt of gratitude to just
uh the amount of the amount of public
service and the fact that we we got some
time with him today
uh because
sometime in
in in sort of managing all of that uh
flurry of uh
activity, you've
just released a like 150-page report. Uh
I want to talk about uh science and new
golden age. Um this came out this week.
>> Yep.
>> So tell us about it.
>> Um
Well, maybe we can start with just a
little bit a little bit of history
because I think that's what sort of
inspired us to to write this report. Um
in in 1945,
uh
FDR wrote a letter to his science
advisor. Since the person who had my
role was that called Vannevar Bush.
In that letter he essentially asked the
science advisor what should we do and
how do we how do we approach the science
ecosystem after World War II? If you can
imagine during World War II a lot of the
the energy that the federal government
put into the science and tech ecosystem
was around getting the nation ready for
the war. So a lot of money was spent in
launching the Manhattan Project and all
this other stuff. And and Vannevar Bush
replied back to to FDR with with a
famous report called Science Endless
Frontier
where he essentially said the government
has a very important role to play in
funding science and technology in the
national interest and particularly in
funding early stage basic research. And
he made the point that you know there is
stuff that only the government is going
to do because the private sector isn't
incentivized to do. And essentially that
report laid out
how we've been doing science as a
country for the last 70 years.
But what's so but times have changed
pretty dramatically. Back then around
like 1950 almost 70% of all R&D was
being funded by the federal government.
So they kind of had monopoly over where
the money was going to go and only about
30 or less was done by the private
sector. Over time that has sort of
inverted completely. The private sector
plus philanthropy now do about 70% of
R&D and the and the government only does
about 30. And just if you think of like
pure basic research, kind of stuff that
you see at universities there's almost
parity between the federal government
and private sector now. So the system
has fundamentally changed and the actors
within the system have changed
dramatically. All of you guys exist. You
guys are doing incredible work in the as
as as startup founders. You have these
organizations called FROs which are a
focus research organizations that sit
outside of universities that do their
own research. And because that system
has changed, you know, we as an
administration believe that we have to
re-look at the way that science and
technology is done this country to get
the most out of it. And when I uh was
confirmed by the Senate for my role,
President Trump wrote me a letter, very
similar way that FDR did, and and asked
me a couple of questions around how can
we revitalize and re-energize the
science ecosystem. And we spent the last
year writing a report um
back to him on on on what we can do. And
there's a couple of of of main themes
that we can get into uh around that, but
the the core sort of thesis about it
that I think applies to you, one of the
one of the main pillars of it is around
this fundamental belief that artificial
intelligence is going to transform the
way that scientific discovery is done in
this country. If you are working on
material science, if you are working on
pharmaceuticals, if you are working on
chemistry, you in 2 3 years or even
today are doing your role as a scientist
dramatically different because of
artificial intelligence. And we as a
government that spend almost 200 billion
dollars a year on funding R&D need to be
aware of that and prioritize that so we
can make sure that our ecosystem is
putting out the best possible research
in the world.
>> Um
so the last chapter of this report
sketches this kind of like almost sci-fi
picture.
Um and
yeah, you're talking about AI agents uh
posting bounties for experiments,
contracting robotic cloud labs,
settling results on a ledger,
and then the budget memo gets really
concrete. Fast grants decided in under a
month.
Prizes built for three to one private
leverage. Every major agency filing an
an action plan within 90 days.
And you write in this report that the
government's job is to shape the arena,
not direct discovery.
>> Yep.
>> So, for the thousands of people we have
assembled here, what what's the piece of
that vision you're hoping
a couple of 20-year-olds build because
the government cannot or should not?
>> To me, I think the the infrastructure
that is going to a
you know, support the scientific
ecosystem in the United States is going
to fundamentally change over the next
few years.
The idea that you can have autonomous
cloud labs running experiments on a loop
without human intervention, testing
hypotheses, running the experiments,
seeing the results, creating a new
hypothesis, testing it and running it,
and ultimately getting to a conclusion,
that is in our sights. But for all of
that to work, there's lots of things
that still need to be done. We have to
get robotics perfected so that you can
create these labs. You have to create
the right software ecosystem to be able
to like think through the next
hypothesis and create the next
hypothesis. So, to me, I think there's
almost a sort of like infinite category
of work that can be done to create this
this world of autonomous experimentation
that all of our scientists across so
many domains are going to be leveraging
to make these discoveries.
>> I mean, you alluded to some of the the
things that I think you're looking out
toward into the future,
uh but
beyond AI, what technology do you think
that Washington will care enormously
about in 5 years that it barely
discusses today?
>> Well, we discuss it a lot, but I don't
think it gets as much airtime as it
should, and and that would be that would
be quantum information science
technology or quantum computing. Um to
me, I think, you know, back in in the
first Trump administration, uh you know,
in 2017, 2018 era, you know, I was as I
was I was chief technology officer
United States, and in that role I was I
I remember kind of constantly running
around the West Wing trying to convince
people that artificial intelligence was
an important thing. And like, maybe once
every couple months some journalist
would like be nice enough to write an
article about AI and what the government
was doing.
>> This is like 2017, 2018.
>> 2018. And um
and you know, I give President Trump an
incredible amount of credit. I mean, he
stood up and said, "I'm going to sign
the first executive order in the history
of the United States prioritizing
artificial intelligence uh in February
of of 2019. And that essentially set out
the first national strategy in history
on on AI. And through that, we created
the first kind of like regulatory
thinking around how our agencies should
be contemplating air power technologies.
Um but, you know, times times have
really changed. And I think the effort
that we put in there to essentially
double the amount of R&D that we were
putting into AI in our in our budgets
then, you know, and you fast forward
through 4 years and and we have ChatGPT
and everything's exploded now. You know,
obviously what we did in the
administration wasn't necessarily the
reason why ChatGPT happened or whatever,
but I think we've spent a lot of work
trying to prioritize and prime the the
S&T ecosystem to be ready for the
moment, and I think it was. And if we
paralyze parallelize that to today, I
think that same moment is happening with
with quantum.
There are truly some some basic
fundamental scientific questions that
still need to be answered on how quantum
can can sort of um uh
be applied to things like computing and
to sensing, and that work goes on. And
you know, the president just signed an
executive order on on on quantum
information science, and we're going to
do a ton of work over the next few years
to prioritize it. He set a pretty
ambitious goal for the Department of
Energy to build a scientifically
relevant quantum computer by by 2028.
My sense is we're going to wake up in 3,
4, 5 years and and kind of see the
progress we've made.
>> We've talked a lot about the uh you
know, the executive branch and its
authority, executive uh
executive orders being used to um shape
AI policy. What do you think Congress
could be doing better on uh these
issues? Cuz it seems like you know, the
the mere fact that we
uh we we read so often about executive
orders in AI might imply that, you know,
our legislative branch could could be
doing a a better job.
>> Yeah, I think that the congressional
stuff is a little bit a little bit
tricky with AI. I think that the
challenge is that we spoke about a
little earlier where you don't
necessarily want to want to set rules of
the road too early that that end up, you
know, hurting the industry rather than
supporting it.
The thing about executive orders,
which is a little secret, is
when administration changes, you can
just revoke the executive order and and
start from scratch again. Um
when something is a law, you you can't
do that. It's it's the law and that's
that's the law of the land. So, you
know, we work very hard to to try to
find
places where we can collaborate with
Congress to set rules that are actually
pro-innovation and help the country. And
the White House put out a set of a set
of sort of legislative proposals to to
Congress earlier this year that walk
through a couple areas where where we
think, you know, a lot of benefit could
happen if it was in statute. But it's a
couple times, I'll say it again, you
know, we would urge Congress to to be
able to pass some sort of some sort of
law around around preemption so we don't
have this crazy patchwork of all these
different states doing all these
different things these things on AI. I
think another area that a lot of
Americans want to see
Congress step up on is
is how AI interacts with intellectual
property and with
and with sort of name, image, and
likeness of certain Americans.
I think there's a lot of creators out
there that are are worried about how AI
is going to impact what they do. And I
think all of us, I mean, you know, we
all have a craft of some kind. You know,
some people are singers, some people are
writers, you know, so all of you are
unbelievable coders. All of you have
sort of skills and talents and and
having some protections and knowing
around that is kind of is kind of
important and something we've been
talking about.
>> Yeah, where do you think what is the
sort of the White House line on that? If
you had a magic wand and you could
sort of solve the IP issue, how would it
how would it be described? Cuz I I feel
like I've spoken with
people from like the traditional kind of
media industry that are just, you know,
filing lawsuits against AI companies
left and right. And And on the other
other end of the spectrum, I've talked
to kind of
pure maxis that say, you know, that that
uh you know, you should not even be able
to opt out of
uh a being crawled for the purposes of
training. And is is
could you talk a little bit about maybe
unpack that issue a little bit? Um
>> Yeah, I I think the one area that I've
been clear on is the is the model
outputs. And if you create a model that
is is outputting uh Mickey Mouse,
>> Yeah.
>> you know, not cool. Can't can't do that.
>> Wait.
>> [laughter]
>> What? That's Walt Disney and and they
shouldn't be allowing people to to
output that. So, I think I think kind of
making that uh more clear and in in in
in statute, I think is I think is very
important. I think there's also a lot of
things that um that the industry can
kind of like um self-coordinate on a
little bit on finding interesting um
uh kind of like re- revenue sharing
models for for creators. There's a lot
of creators out there that would love to
license their their own personal IP to
to um to to companies that can do all
sorts of stuff with it, whether they're
musicians or anything else.
>> I actually just read this morning my old
company Yelp did a deal with ChatGPT
where I guess they're outputting some of
the reviews for um so, yeah, you're
starting to see a lot more of that.
>> Ex- exactly. And look, it's early. I
think I But but but I think over time
that that that market is going to is
going to mature and I think that's maybe
a category of places where you probably
don't want to legislate too fast. So,
you got to kind of let the let the
market kind of sort itself out. Um but
but I I do think it's important cuz
Americans generally generally do care.
>> Well, to to close us out, I one final
question, which is that you were one of
the youngest people ever in your role.
To the 20-year-olds in this room who
care about technology and how it shapes
the country,
should some of them work in government
someday?
And what would they find there?
>> You know, I I would recommend to all of
you if there's if there's a moment in
your career or a moment in your life
where um
you can take a role in government, um I
guarantee you they will you will never
feel or have a moment where it's more
fulfilling and more rewarding. I think
it can be a slog, it can be
bureaucratic, it can be painful, but
when the when the outcome actually
happens and you deliver the result,
there is no place where you can have a
bigger impact on on this country. And I
think all of you are here, you're here
to build companies, you're excited about
building new things, about hiring more
Americans, about building technologies
and amazing things that will touch the
lives of so many of our of our fellow
citizens. Um and there's some flavor of
that in government. In creating sort of
the environment that can allow startups
to thrive, that can allow new companies
to be built, I believe there's something
very fulfilling and rewarding about
that. And in being able to do that in
the service of kind of your fellow
Americans is is something I'd encourage
all of you to do. And if any of you want
to work in the in the White House
Science and Technology Office, you you
just look us up because we're always
looking for good people.
>> Uh well, Director Kratsios, I just have
to say as
uh
Y Combinator's head of public policy
based in Washington, um I really
appreciate
uh the accessibility of your office and
uh the administration and the
thoughtfulness on these issues.
And I also really appreciate you coming
out and speaking to Y Combinator AI
Startup School today. Let's give it up
for Director Kratsios. Thank you.
>> Thank you.