Title: Kathryn Minshew at Female Founders Conference 2014
Video ID: zoF10tFmNmY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zoF10tFmNmY
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2014-03-12T16:43:36Z
Duration: PT18M45S
Views: 7190
Likes: 71
Tags: Female Founders Conference, Y Combinator, YC, Female Founders, Kathryn Minshew, The Muse
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 594

Description:
Kathryn Minshew, cofounder of The Muse, at Female Founders Conference 2014

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

So, next you're gonna meet Katherine
Mchu. Fun fact, when she was a kid,
Katherine wanted to be Zoro.
Now, Katherine is founder and CEO of the
Muse, a career platform and job
discovery tool. Katherine is part of the
YC Winter 2012 batch. Please welcome
Katherine Mchu.
[Applause]
Hey everybody. Um, thank you guys so
much for having me. I'm actually really
excited. As Ellie mentioned, we were
actually in the same batch. So, the last
time I was up here was also uh our demo
day in March 2012. Um, we actually kind
of messed it up, but things have worked
out okay since. So, hopefully this will
be much more exciting. Um, so I want to
take you guys through a little bit of
Muse history. um some of the mistakes we
made um a couple of the lessons learned
and a few of the big things that I wish
I had known when I got started a couple
years ago. Um so for people who don't
know the muse um as Cat mentioned we
help uh people figure out what they want
to do with their lives. So we give them
career advice. We help them see inside
companies understand what's a day in the
life you know uh hear from employee
evangelists on video about what it means
to be a product manager or uh an
engineer or in you know marketing
analytics or community service. And um I
think when people come to our site
sometimes, you know, there's clearly
we've been working on it for for a
while. Um my co-founder Alex, who's
here, likes to describe it as an
evolution to awesome. But I prefer to
describe it um as an evolution from suck
to suck less because I think that that's
for me at the core of a lot of startups
is this idea that by the time you often
hear about a lot of the companies that
are touted as um you know as as big kind
of technology successes they've already
gone so far past the point of their
early ugly scrappy MVP roots that it's
sometimes really hard to see where they
came from. And I know when we were
getting started with the Muse, I had a
lot of anxiety over the fact that we had
this product which was a pretty much an
ugly duckling and I wasn't really sure
if it would ever develop into a swan. Um
so I want to kind of take you quickly
through our history um from from suck to
suck glassless. Uh starting with uh how
you know where the idea came from which
was very much a personal pain point. Um
so I was a political science undergrad.
Um, as Cat mentioned, I wanted to be
Zoro originally when I was a kid and
then as I grew up, I matured a little
bit and I really wanted to be in the
CIA. This actually came from my
fascination. Um, I'm not even joking.
Why did I want to be in the C CIA? It
was because I was obsessed with the TV
show Alias and I thought Jennifer Garner
was so awesome and a great show. So, I
remember thinking to myself and I also
liked Model UN at school, but I think
when you're a kid, I mean, you you have
all these ideas about what it is like to
do different careers. And it wasn't
really until I was uh a political
science major. I got to intern at a US
embassy in Cyprus and get chased around
by Marines during a training exercise
that I was like, you know what, I might
not actually be cut out for this. So, I
went to McKenzie. Um really interesting
experience, but I knew pretty quickly
that I don't actually want to be a
management consultant. I moved to Rwanda
and Malawi and worked in vaccines and I
was like, "Holy [ __ ] like everything I
do is interesting and I'm learning a
lot, but it is nothing like what I
thought it would be when I started." So,
you know what? if there was something
online that could kind of solve this
problem. Um, at the same time, I had met
my co-founders, Alex and Melissa. Um,
this is when we look more badass, but at
the time at Mackenzie, we were not
badass at all. Um, and Alex can tell you
some crazy stories, but we did have, you
know, a lot of kind of ongoing
conversations about how there was a real
hole we felt in the marketplace for um,
advice and job listings and support that
was really about um, about navigating
your career because the way people were
thinking about their career had changed
substantially. It wasn't linear. and we
we all felt very kind of lost. So we
decided to start something. The problem
was initially none of us was technical.
Now actually uh Melissa codes back end,
Alex codes front end, I do not code
anymore. Um but we you know we didn't
really have a lot of skills. We were
pretty broke when we were getting
started. Um so we thought what can we
do? We started with a WordPress site. Um
so this is actually what we launched
with in September of 2011. I now think
it's ugly as [ __ ] but that's okay
because we were really proud of it at
the time. And it was a WordPress
customized theme that provided career
advice from different kind of
professionals and managers and execs um
in a pretty easy to read formatted
targeted at women in their 20s which
investors were telling us was a very
very small market. Um we decided, you
know, that we would test job listings
out through this WordPress because we
didn't have any ability to build
something custom. So we went to Uber.
you convinced them to, you know, I think
they paid us like $200 to post a bunch
of their general manager job listings
when they were, you know, still in maybe
two or three cities only. And you could,
you know, I think Alex hacked together
like a little form at the bottom. And
what was interesting is that even though
there were so many massive holes and we
were kind of pitching this big vision
that was nothing like the reality, we
started seeing incredible user growth.
So we had 20,000 people visit the site
in the first month, 26,000 in the seven,
and 75,000 in the third. Um, which is
insane. And I'll talk in a little bit
how we kind of got the word out, but um
we ended up being convinced at the very
last minute to apply to YC. And it was
actually interesting. We were not going
to apply at all. Um I had been with a
previous company that Alex and I worked
on together turned down from I think
like 11 accelerators. And so I was done.
I was like, "All right, I'm not wasting
my time." And one of our adviserss,
Rachel, came to me and she was like,
"You absolutely have to put your hat in
the ring. You need to apply. And you
know, if you don't get in, you don't get
in, but you really ought to go for And
so that weekend, you know, we we threw
an application together, put it in, and
lo and behold, got an interview. So this
is the three of us. Uh on the day that
we interviewed at YC, we blasted loud
music. You know, we um just came in
really pumped up. We kind of were at
this point where we've been turned down
by almost every single investor in New
York City. And we're just like, "Fuck
it. We don't even care. We're going to
keep going. We're building something
that we believe users want and that data
is showing users want. And we really,
you know, we hope this works out. Um,
but if it doesn't, you know, we're going
to kind of keep trying and keep going.
We're very uh very determined despite
looking very nice up here. Um, so lo and
behold, we got in. It was this huge
surprise. And then I think we started
making some of our biggest early stage
mistakes, which was that first of all,
when we got into YC, we got so excited
about the fact this was somebody that
actually had, you know, was was sort of
respected and they actually believed in
what we were doing. So we thought like
now is the time to make the career
product of our dreams. So we hired two
people. um off of Hacker News who were
very talented but without a lot of kind
of culture fit vetting and we started
dreaming really big. So this is an
actual mockup that Alex built um in
January of 2012. We went in to talk with
PG. It was like one of our first big
meetings with him and we're like all
right this is what we're building. It's
going to have like this predictive data
and then you can enter this and it'll be
personalized and everything will be
completely customized and like there's
like 12 different features and he just
cut us off. I mean seconds into you know
our big kind of exciting demo and he was
like that's ridiculous. you will never
get that out the door. You need to just
[ __ ] launch already. And that hit us
pretty hard. Um, we realized that this
idea that we were kind of polishing in
the corner, sort of like Gollum and Lord
of the Rings, was, you know, was very
precious, but it wasn't actually
something that we like by the time we
actually got it out there and saw how
people were reacting to different
elements of it, we'd be dead. We'd run
out of money. And so, we kind of took a
step back. Um, we did a kind of 24-hour
cycle where Alex pulled an allnighter
and rebuilt the site. We then started
working on it the next morning and
exactly 13 days later we launched on
Techrunch with this very first, you
know, basic version and we kind of
started iterating and learning from
there and there were a couple of key
things that we learned as we were sort
of pushing this mountain uh this boulder
up the mountain which I think is what
most startups are like. Um the first I
refer to is you've got to start
somewhere. So it's this idea that
startups are kind of like monopoly. You
can't pass go if you you can't get $200
if you don't pass go. I think it's
really tempting sometimes to keep
working on something and to keep it, you
know, very quiet, to wait until you have
something beautiful and perfect to put
out to the world because it's really
difficult to put up a site that people
think is ugly. And it's really difficult
to tell someone your idea and have them
say that's really, you know, really
that's what you're doing. Um, and we got
a lot of that in the early days, but I
think if we hadn't been so willing to
put ourselves out there, um, when we
were frankly, you know, had something
that was that was laughed at sometimes
by people, we wouldn't have gotten so
much of the data that let us kind of
navigate the right direction. Um,
another way of saying this is your
college roommates's approval does not
mean market demand. Um, so this is
something, you know, I hear a lot. talk
to uh founders, it's often uh you know
sometimes uh young guys that are very
excited and they're like, "This is going
to be amazing. It's going to be big."
And I'm like, "How do you know?" They're
like, "Well, I asked five friends and my
mom and everyone thinks it's brilliant."
I'm like, "You know what? Those people
love you." Like people who love you are
going to tell you that they think your
idea is good because they believe in you
for the most part. Now, they might not
always, but I think you've got to kind
of put your idea, your baby, right up
against the cold, hard light of someone
who doesn't give a [ __ ] about you and
see how it reacts. And ideally, I'm
going to go back to this in a little
bit, but someone who is actually a user
of your target demographic because lots
of people who will never be the ideal
users for what you're building will tell
you they don't get it, that it's a
terrible idea, that, you know, it's it's
it's ugly. Um, I think the most
important feedback I like to process all
feedback, but the most important
feedback is from the people that are in
your target demographic.
So, one more point on this. So, this is
again the first version of the Muse.
This is what it looks like now. If we
waited till it looked like this to
launch, we would be dead and we'd
probably all be back at, you know, much
more boring corporate jobs. So, secondly
is test everything but know what's
actually important. I think when we
first launched the company profiles and
the job listings on the muse, we got so
excited with the fact that we could
track all of this data. So we had mix
panel tracking where people were
clicking and we were looking at, you
know, crazy egg to see mouse movements
and all of these things and we noticed
that users weren't doing certain things
that we wanted them to do. So for
example, every profile had large videos
where employees at different companies
could tell people um could could talk
about what it was like to work there and
you could watch and a bunch of people
were watching the videos but not
everyone. And we started thinking like
how can we get more people to watch
videos and we ran tests and we were
tracking it and you know making the
playheads bigger or changing the text.
And then finally we were in some office
hours at YC um and one of the partners
was like why does it matter if people
watch videos? Is that a key metric? And
we sat back and we thought for a second
we're like you know what like what will
make our company successful? How many
people are coming to the site? Whether
they're applying to jobs uh whether
they're sharing it with their friends.
There are a couple of core metrics that
really define success, but whether
they're watching videos is not in and of
itself one of them. So, if watching more
videos leads them to apply or to spend
longer on the site or to share more with
their friends, that's great. But
changing something like that in of
itself um was actually just distracting
us from our core. Now, the third oops,
there's Lance. Um the third is create
velocity. And this is kind of the field
of dreams idea which is that I think
often um startup um startup customer
acquisition and kind of uh early stage
media has this idea that you know if you
build it they will come and I think the
answer that I have seen is no
unfortunately I wish that were awesome
and in fact in some case you know you
may actually be you may be able to reach
your demographic very early. may be
naturally kind of viral in a way and if
you get that you're very lucky and
that's fantastic but for most of us you
actually have to go out and kind of
scratch and find your audience from
among a very very large pool of
potential people who don't necessarily
want to share about your product early
on. Um as I said I've done two startups
and the big difference between startup
number one PP which is very dead and
startup number two the muse which is not
dead is user growth. figuring out how do
you get people to know about you in the
first place so that if they do like what
you're doing, they can tell. So, I've
got a couple of things we did to sort of
acquire users out of thin air. Um, and
we were really broke. So, none of these
are things that um that cost any money.
But what we found that worked for us,
one was to seek out really like-minded
groups. So, since initially when we were
started The Muse, now we have, you know,
over a million users a month from 20 to,
you know, late 40s uh all across the
United States, men and women. But when
we were starting, we were targeting
women in their 20s, generally in a
certain type of kind of professional or
educational career trajectory. And so we
started making lists of groups. So
things like the Stanford Women in Law
Group, Baldwin Scholars of Duke, like no
group was too small. And we would
personally write someone in the group
and we'd say, "Hi, I'm Katherine. Um
I'm, you know, started this company to
do XYZ. Would love if you take a look.
I'd really love to hear your feedback,
you know, and if um if you think it's
something that'd be interesting, share
it with your members." And then I would
actually put something in the email that
would um that would basically make it no
work for them to share it on. And a
surprising number of people they liked
what they found. You know they like most
people like providing value and
information to others. So they would
pass it on to the list serves the groups
a lot of these underground things that
we never could have accessed on our own.
The second point is you know to make it
you've got to make it insanely easy for
people to give you word of mouth. So I
always think it's really interesting. A
lot of people will email me and they'll
say, um, Katherine, I just started this
company. Like, I would love it if you
will tweet about it. If you actually put
a tweet in that email, there is like a
5x chance more high that I will that and
that people in general will tweet about
it because you've just taken out the
work. Like asking someone to spread the
word um is, I think, a really great way
of getting the word out. But it's very
helpful if you can say, you know, here
are a couple of sample tweets or sample
Facebook posts that people can literally
copy paste. Um, and we found once we
started doing that that people were more
than willing to help. But if helping me
spending four minutes figuring out
exactly, you know, what to write, um,
they were much much less likely to do
it. And then finally, become your own PR
machine. So when we started the Muse,
obviously nobody wanted to write about
us. Lots of people start companies every
day. And I was emailing reporters and
they were like, "Okay, and you're who?"
I was like, "Ah, no one actually, but
working on it." And so I started
thinking like what could I do to get
links about us and word about us out on
big platforms. And one of the things is
a lot of these platforms do want guest
content. They want people to write and
to provide by lines and to provide good
content for free um so that they can get
ads and page views etc. So I started
writing and at the beginning I would
write for the muse. Um then I got a
contact at the Huffington Post. I wrote
something there. I don't think anybody
ever read it, but it was on the
Huffington Post and it was well written.
And then I sent that link to other
platforms like Forbes. I mean, I pitched
a lot of people that said no at first.
In fact, I blogged for the Harvard
Business Review now. Um, but I emailed
them a couple of times like over a full
year before they finally wrote back to
me and said, "Hey, remember that email
from, you know, like 14 months ago? We'd
like to have you right now." Um, and so,
you know, I think no just means wait a
little bit and uh and ask me again
later. often, but we started kind of
producing content about startups, about
careers, about anything that was really
relevant to our business and then
getting other sites to publish that and
it was kind of a slow process. It did
take a while, but it built a lot of
brand recognition early on and also
great for SEO.
Um, number four is build an amazing
team. I think a lot of people have
talked about it. So, this is part of uh
not the entire but part of the Muse
team. In fact, two people from the Muse
team are here today, uh, Meha and Sarah,
which is really exciting for me. Um, and
the thing is like none of these people
turn down other job opportunities, um,
other things that they could be doing
because we offer like the most amazing
salary and perks in New York City. In
fact, that's wildly untrue. Um, we are
still a very scrappy company at core.
You know, we often cannot offer people
what they'd be able to command on the
market. But I think as a startup, you
have to focus on what you can offer
them. And that's often much much more
powerful, especially to the right
people. So we often recruit first of all
by people who love love what it is that
we're doing and are kind of deeply
passionate about the mission. But we
also focus on what their individual
goals are personally and professionally
and how we can help make that happen. So
during the interview process, we often
like to ask people, you know, outside of
your core job, what is it you're excited
about doing? And people will tell us,
you know, I love the idea of speaking to
other women in technology. I love the
idea of, you know, becoming a marketer
who knows more code. whatever it is,
part of our job as founders, I believe,
is to connect the people who have taken
the risk to be on our team with the
things and opportunities that will get
them where they want to go. Um, and I
also think that, you know, you you have
to lead by example. So, to the point
about low salaries below, Alex and I
make less than almost everybody on this
page, sometimes by a factor of two or
three. And that's all right because I
think we are building a team that's in
it for the long haul. Um, and that's
something that, you know, I think is is
one of the strongest assets of a startup
because you're competing against these
big people with a lot of resources, but
they don't necessarily have the fire
that your team has. Um, and you know,
when you're looking for kind of new
hires, um, obviously everyone knows kind
of the classic big sites, your LinkedIn,
your Indeeds. There's a lot of
upandcomers um higher art ellies the
muse um angel list networks are big but
I also find lurking to be very effective
which I define as um figuring out first
of all you know spending time on hacker
news on Twitter following people that
you think might be interesting employees
figuring out what startups are dying or
are close to and nicely approaching
people who work there saying are you in
fact looking for a new job because often
um it's also really helpful often
founders who are going through tough
financial situations have to let go
people that are incredibly talented. And
so if you can actually be known as and
kind of reach out to people, they may
actually be really happy to hand you or
kind of introduce you to an amazing
engineer, salesperson, ops person who
they completely believe in but just
aren't able to keep on the payroll
because the business has changed or
because financial situations allowed. Um
so I think that can be really effective.
And finally, the last point I want to
make is do not believe the hype. I think
we exist in a business in which people
are always getting funded by Andre and
appearing on TechCrunch and hitting 13
million clicks, whatever the [ __ ] that
means. Um, there's a lot of vanity
metrics. There's a lot of patting people
on the back. And I think it can be
really hard sometimes to exist in that
environment, especially when um, it
feels like all you're getting is no.
That's one of the reasons I'm such a big
believer in focusing on who is your
user, where are they, and and are you
providing them with something they love?
Because I think ultimately if you're
really able to hook into a deep need,
you're able to build something that
people need and that they love and you
can slowly track that acquisition then
you know two users becomes 20 users
becomes 20,000 2 million and you become
a lot harder to ignore. So overall
you've got to start somewhere. Track
everything but know what's important.
Create your own velocity. Don't rely on
people to give it to you. uh build an
amazing team and do not believe the
[ __ ] hype because all of those people
who laugh at you or patronize you or
tell you no, ultimately their opinion is
often completely irrelevant to your
success and it's going to feel really
good to smile at them when you've done
it. Thank you.