Title: Diane Greene at Startup School 2013
Video ID: zSEeFxq2X_c
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSEeFxq2X_c
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2013-10-26T00:23:35Z
Duration: PT28M4S
Views: 14125
Likes: 109
Tags: YC, Y Combinator, VMWare
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 671

Description:
Diane Greene at Startup School 2013

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

Hi there.
I I've been in this auditorium once
before.
I think it was before you were born.
It was 1989 and I was working for Tandem
Computers which was one of the biggest
companies in Silicon Valley and the very
wonderful irreverent founder CEO was
holding an all hands meeting and I was
in the audience as a software engineer.
So, it's um pretty special to be here
right today. Um I've done three
startups. Uh the first one was a low
band bandwidth streaming video company.
The extreme that t uh Microsoft bought
was the basis for their movie player
and came out of a silicon graphics um
internet television project. Uh and then
uh I'm doing a startup right now which
I'm not going to talk about. And then uh
the second startup I co-founded was uh
VMware and that's I'm going to try and
sort of tell you a little bit about how
we
uh got going on VMware and how that
company started.
Um
just by way of background we founded the
company in 1998.
Uh it's it's a virtualization. We
created sort of the virtualization
industry and what it is it's a layer of
software that sits between the hardware
and the operating system. Kind of fakes
out the operating system. to think it's
running on the hardware. Lets you run
multiple operating systems that can be
moved around um on a single computer or
across computers and uh works on
desktops and servers and increases
efficiency, makes things easier to use
and so forth. So that was what we did. I
left the company in 2008. Our run rate
was about two billion. We grew my last
quarter. We had year-over-year growth of
54%.
about 6,000 people in offices all over
the world and it continues to be an even
bigger company today.
Okay.
So, one thing we did when we started
VMware was we had a big vision. Okay.
And and to lessen constraints and
facilitate innovation for other system
builders as well as end to end users of
computers. And we also pushed ourselves.
We said it would be ubiquitous by the
year 2000. we missed by a good six years
or so, but we did make it ubiquitous.
Um, and then uh we we had some students
leave school on us. So, we had a goal of
getting them to get their PhDs and
interestingly enough, one of them after
getting married, having two kids in
grade school went back to Stamford and
uh finished his PhD and he's a professor
in Switzerland now. So um but but we had
this big vision. Uh this was our
founding team minus myself. I took the
picture and uh
and it has my husband who's a professor
of computer science at Stanford. Uh two
of his graduate students, Ed and Scott,
and then my husband and I met at UC
Berkeley in graduate school computer
science. and the other person uh came
from there and then one was there that
was employee number one. he is a uh
undergraduate working on the research
project and and I'm proud to say that he
has gone on founded his own company and
which uh Google recently bought um
and
uh
just for historic reasons for those of
you that are local this was our first
office over the cheeseboard in Town and
Country Shopping Center and uh I know
people are paying upwards$6 dollars a
square foot today. We were a little
luckier. It was $1.75
uh when we got our first office. And one
little bit of advice, we didn't we, you
know, we we made sure we had desks to
sit at, but we didn't really spend much
on fixing up the office. I brought in a
unbelievable office manager. She was
more like the chief operating officer uh
when we were about 10 people and that's
when we uh fixed up the office. Uh, one
other thing worth mentioning about us
and our founding. Um, once we had
decided to found the company, um, I was
I became pregnant with our second child
and so I wasn't planning to take the
company all the way. I said, "Look, I'll
get it off the ground. I know how to do
a startup, but I'm just having my second
kid." But it ended up, you know, for all
the family people in the audience, it
worked just great. It actually I would
have left if it wasn't working. Uh my my
daughter was jumping for joy when I told
her I was about to do a third startup.
She's in high school now. So it couldn't
have been too bad for her. Um you just
have to include them. like our son's uh
fifth birthday where we moved from this
office to another and we rented a pickup
truck which was of course his dream to
get to drive a you know sit in our lap
and drive a pickup truck. So um we
really integrated the family. Um
okay so there were five of us uh funding
wise what we did we self-funded
initially we said immediate family could
put put in money but no friends we
weren't totally I mean it took us many
hours the first time I think about four
hours to boot Windows on Linux the first
time and I was a little nervous um that
we were going to get the performance
down but um and then once we convinced
ourselves that this was really going to
work. Uh we went out for angel money and
we very carefully chose our angels to be
people that were very uh technically
sophisticated that would understand what
we were doing. So they were computer
scientists. It was Andy Bealshin, John
Hennessy, and David Sheridan. And
because they understood it so well, it
only took a phone call really, you know,
which is how a lot of angel investing I
think happens. And then uh once we got
um
a little further along uh once we got
into the uh market, we um decided, you
know, we needed more runway. We would
take some more money and we do do a real
outside round. And we decided uh we were
selling product at that point, desktop
product. And so we thought, well, let's
um
let's let's get some partners to invest
in us because they'll be strategic.
And so we we looked we decided that
since we had we were going to start out
on the workstation, we were going to go
into the server. Once we got into the
server, that would be a really difficult
market to go into. Uh so let's get the
hardware vendors to invest in us. So we
went and then we thought well it's IBM
Dell or HP
and we thought IBM and HP could build
software so they wouldn't be good
partners in the long term perhaps but
Dell we didn't expect today they do do
software but back then there was uh no
chance they were going to do software
and so we went to um Michael Dell and
convinced him to invest in us and take
the lead on a round and
actually we were going through that
round. This was in 2000
and it was sort of the height of the
bubble and uh and some VCs found out we
were doing around some really great VCs
and they said, "What are you doing? You
should take our money. We're going to do
it. We'll give you, you know," and we
said, "Well, we're going to we we
decided we would keep the valuation
where it was." They could they they were
willing to take it higher, but we want
we knew we wanted to go public. We
didn't want to ever risk a down. We we
believed the bubble was going to burst.
And so we held our valuation and they
and and I kept uh I didn't tell Dell
that we were doing doing looking at
doing VCs. I just kept that term sheet
going and uh we moved forward with the
VCs. And then uh in April of 2000, the
bubble burst and the VCs called up and
said, "We're going to have to have your
valuation.
Look what's happened. Everybody's half
their valuation now." and and we were
able to say no, we don't need to do
that. And we closed the round the next
day with Dell. Um
it's just sort of keep your options
open. And um and we um
what was I going to say about about the
funding? Uh,
oh, I was going to say that, you know,
we were so I'll I'll get to how we
launched and how we got our first idea,
but I'll just mention that uh we were
people were running Windows on Linux
with our product and and uh Michael
Dell, who was our lead investor, was
quoted in in uh CNET uh as saying, I
invest in lots of Linux companies. None
of them are ever going to make a profit.
I just want to help Linux. And when
you're a entrepreneur, you just don't
like seeing that in the press about your
company. Fortunately, he was wrong. Um
the downside of non-professional
investors, you know, but um but he was
he was he was very helpful to us. Um so,
okay. So we had money, we had um a place
to live with and and we we were building
our product and and this virtualization
there was a lot of very deep technology
that we had to do. But we had to figure
out what we're going to be our first you
know when you have a giant vision the
thing you want to do is find a very
doable first milestone that creates
value for somebody. It could be another
company. It could be a ideally a
customer but it doesn't have to be a
customer. So, what smaller thing could
we do rather than our big vision? And we
thought, well, we had this x86
virtualization,
you know, it would be a really great way
for someone that was running Linux, not,
you know, there were a lot of developers
using Linux back then. It was just
starting to rise. Lena Traval's had not
quite yet been on the cover of time,
though. And uh and so we would build a
desktop product that would let you run
Windows on Linux. And uh that way we
would we and um we could also let Linux
run on Windows and we figured that way
we could use the Windows device drivers
and not have to build every uh device
driver that a PC needs and we wouldn't
have to go into the server market. And
we also had um a rule that we couldn't
have a dependency on anybody. So we
didn't want to require Intel x86,
you know, architecture to make any
concessions for us because that would
give us them a lot of power over us and
we couldn't require uh Microsoft to make
any concessions for our software to run
because they would obviously have
complete control over us. So we set out
to build this desktop product that would
run Windows on Linux or Linux on Windows
but require zero change from any
operating system or chipset uh vendor
and it had to have adequate performance
that someone would want to use it. And
we sort of set that as our first first
milestone. And so we kind of got it
working and we said okay how do we take
it to market? We'll take it to market as
a Linux tool. Um so that when you um
want to run you know mic back then
everybody that worked in a company had
to run Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft
Office but they wanted to live in a
Linux world so this was the way to do it
without having to have more than one
computers or having to dual boot and um
and so um and then the Linux community
would be a very technicalfriendly
community for us. So, so that's what we
did and we launched it. Everybody
thought we were a Linux tool. We had
three Linux companies come to us and try
and buy us but and we didn't know how
much we could charge for that. You got
to price your first product. And so we
said, well, we'll just put the beta up
there. We'll make it fully functional,
free. Anybody can have it over the
internet, but they have to it's only a
30-day trial. and they can renew it
every 30 days if they want to go through
the hassle because we really weren't
sure anybody would pay for it. And then
we said, well, if you use it
commercially, if you're using it in a
company, you should pay $299.
And if you don't want to have to renew
every 30 days and you're just a
hobbyist, you should pay $99. So, it was
this total trust system. We didn't know
how it would work, but we just put it up
on the internet like that. And um we had
to figure out how to spread the word,
you know, when we launched this thing.
So we uh decided we would go to a
conference that launched startups demo.
Um and that that was a funny anecdote.
Somebody told us we needed to hire a
marketing person to help us get into
demo. So we hired the person they well
we brought the person in. They
recommended to talk to them. and they uh
at demo you can either be on stage or
you can just have a little t well you
everybody gets a table but you have to
audition to get on stage. She said
you'll never get on stage. Um and
actually we couldn't even recruit a PR
firm at the time. Everybody thought this
was such a bad idea. But um you know
because there this was when web van was
out there, toys.com was out there,
pets.com was out there. So um anyhow so
we uh decided we would launch our
product at demo. We fired the we didn't
hire this marketing person and we we did
it ourselves. We auditioned. We um had a
great we had a funny audition because we
had two computers we brought in. You
didn't really have laptops then. And we
had one was a backup in case the thing
didn't work. and and I'm sitting there
with my with the two founders and and
the women were auditioning for and uh
all of a sudden the founder just froze
the keyboard up in the air and I'm like
I wonder what that was about. I keep
talking away about all the ways you can
use this and then it starts, you know,
working. He gets his keyboard up and
it's working. And what he what had
happened was it had crashed and he
wanted an excuse to switch computers. So
he pretended like he had dropped his
keyboard.
But we we we we got on stage and we um
we actually got it was really wonderful
experience. We got a standing ovation
because we did the Windows blue screen
of death, but we hadn't really crashed
the computer. We had just crashed the
the virtual machine and we switched into
a new window and that got a standing
ovation. So
um so so we we did demo we did slash dot
which was where all the Linux developers
um exchanged information. We got slash
dotted and then we decided not to spend
any money on marketing but to but to get
pe public relations to get press because
we thought it was interesting enough and
it worked. We got a lot of great
coverage including uh in the Wall Street
Journal. Actually what happened was when
we launched our beta we were very frugal
and we didn't have enough bandwidth. We
launched it on a Sunday. We had
announced we would launch it on Monday
and uh so many people came to our site
in the middle of the night to download
our product that um our we ran out of
bandwidth and and our ISP wouldn't give
us any more bandwidth automatically. So,
a kid at Cornell, a sophomore at Cornell
took our site and and hosted it at
Cornell and posted a sign, don't sue me,
VMware. I'm keeping track of everybody
that comes to your site, but your site
is down. And and he so he hosted us
until we could get back up and running
again. And uh he came and interned with
us after that. And and
so that was great. Um so anyhow we um
yeah so we got all that done. We uh we
also filed patents. I'll just say a bit
about patents. We started working on
patents from day one. When you sit in
between Microsoft and Intel, you sort of
want to try and protect yourself with
IP. I have to say a little startup it's
pretty hopeless to protect yourself
against a monopoly because you know they
can afford giant legal bills and you
can't. But but we did get our patents
filed. Um, I can't say even though they
were pretty rock solid patents, they
never really helped us that much. But,
um,
anyhow, uh, Microsoft actually bought
someone that had copied us and and we
weren't going to, um, ever sue them
because we knew we were going to beat
them. But then we, when we found out
Microsoft was trying to buy them, we
decided to sue them because certainly
Microsoft wouldn't buy a company that
was violating our rocksolid patent. But
we we were wrong.
Um anyhow, but we but it still took it
actually ended up slowing Microsoft down
because that company's code wasn't very
good and Microsoft tried to use it. But
um
anyhow um uh board when I went out to
look for a board uh uh a board of
directors, you know, since we had sort
of self-funded and we had had the
angels, we just sort of had our own
internal board. And then we finally
said, well, we should get some external
people.
And again, you know, we did have a lot
of trepidation about wedging ourselves
in between Intel and Microsoft. And uh
so I kind of went out and looked for
sort of who I thought was the best able
to help us figure out how to stand up to
those guys. and and uh that Larry
Sanscini was the managing partner of
Wilson Sancini and pretty powerful
attorney, businessminded attorney. So I
decided he needed to be our uh board
member. I had never met him. And this is
sort of a philosophy I have. If you have
a good reason for someone to help you
that goes beyond the fact that they're,
you know, rich and powerful, um you can
generally convince them. Because what I
did, you know, he had never met me. Um,
I told a lawyer at Wilson Sancini that
we would move to their law firm if I
could have a meeting with Larry Sancini.
So, I got my meeting. I sent him a bunch
of materials over before I arrived about
what we were doing and uh went into his
office, you know, and I wasn't sure I
wanted him on my board, but he smiled at
me and asked how he could help. And I
thought, "Yes, I want him on my board."
and and uh he said, "How can I help
you?" I said, "I'd really like you to
join my board." He said, "Oh," he
laughed and said he was busy getting off
boards. And I said, 'Well, let's talk
about the company. And so we started
talking and we started talking about we
had had at that point quite a history
with Intel around
working with um
shall we say they were interested in our
IP and we were um not about to give it
to them and there was some a lot of
discussions going on and uh so I was
talking to him about this and I was
talking to him about some things that
were already going on with Microsoft and
he was really interested did. And uh he
and then it was late Friday afternoon. I
left. He said he'd let me know. And I
came in Monday morning at 7 a.m. and
there on my voicemail from 6:00 in the
morning was this no uh voicemail from
Larry Suncini saying he would join our
board. He was just an invaluable board
member because he had seen every deal in
the world and you know knew how to
negotiate these things. Um and then from
there I added some other board members.
But um I think a board can be really
really helpful to you if you get the
right people.
Um
let's see. So we we basically we
launched our product we when we started
selling it uh we just sold it over the
internet. We supported it via email and
so on. We're very frugal and we were um
cash neutral and we were international.
We were all over the world from day one.
It was pretty exciting. uh back in 1999.
Um
yeah, so now I'm going to just talk a
little bit about uh the enterprise
market because um it's sort of dawning
to go into the enterprise market. And in
fact, um I remember one of our top
engineers left. He said, "You're not
going to be able to get into the
enterprise market. This this company's
going to fail." And um I remember
talking to one of the better known tech
bankers and and he made fun of us. He
said, "You can't make it in the
enterprise. You can do these things, but
you really got to build up your
credibility and you really got to, you
know, play the wind shifts to get there.
um uh we decided we should go to market
uh we couldn't possibly build out an
enterprise salesforce and we should go
to market with the hardware vendors and
we found a way that we could uh help the
hardware vendors make money. So
basically IBM at the time and now IBM
had invention invented virtualization
back in the 60s. It had completely died
out uh because people thought it was
something for big mainframes. Um, but
they got what we were doing. And IBM had
some huge uh x86 servers, PC servers
that they were having trouble selling
because nobody had a workload that was
big enough to need such a big server.
But these big servers were very high
margin. So they um so we were talking to
them, we were talking to HP. We're
trying to convince anybody that would uh
listen to us. Um, and people, just to
give you make a point about how little
people listen to us, we were trying to
talk to all the analysts like Gartner
and Forester and everything. And one
day, um, we had one marketing guy, he
runs into my office, he goes, "We
finally got a meeting with Forester. Um,
it's at 9:00 tomorrow morning in
Boston." And I, you know, we were in
PaloAlto. And I'm like, "Okay." So, we
get on the red eyee and we go out to
Boston and we come into Forester. was so
excited to have the audience of a of an
analyst and the person they sent in was
covering the auto industry. It was I was
just like nearly jumped at him but I
didn't I proceeded to tell him what
virtualization was. But um anyhow um so
so so finally uh we were trying to get
these Harvard vendors to work for us and
uh what happened was an IBM fellow comes
knocking at our door. we hadn't launched
our server product yet and he says,
"I've been looking at your desktop
product. I think it would be great on
one of our servers uh as a way to help
sell them." A very technical guy. We'd
only been talking to the marketing
people. So, we said, "Oh, come into our
labs." And we showed him it. You know,
we had been building it from day one and
it was working. And so we got our
partnership with IBM uh going and then
we did this created this sort of
artificial uh VMware preferred hardware
vendor program and set a deadline and
put a bunch of requirements on it and
all the other hardware vendors signed up
by that deadline. I'm not sure they knew
why they were signing up but it having a
deadline helps in almost everything. and
and so we uh from so we were able to
start selling with the with the hardware
vendors and uh it it's an interesting
sort of story how we got going with IBM
it's sort of you know startups are one
lucky break after another and and the
the name you know the game is to put
yourself in position to take advantage
of all these lucky breaks and so what
happened was IBM was going to resell our
product
but Um, we used Linux as a a um way to
get going, you know, to kind of boot and
then Linux got out of the way and then
the virtual our our software took over.
You didn't use it anymore. And uh IBM's
lawyers discovered that we had GPL Linux
software in our distribution. And they
killed the whole deal because they were
afraid it would pollute everything and
all of IBM's software would suddenly
have to be open sourced and they didn't
want to risk that. And so uh we were
like, "Oh no, how are we ever going to
get anyone to help us sell our product?"
And then and then we had this idea and
we said, 'Well, what about if your
resellers sold us? Would that create
this legal problem and they said, "No,
our resellers can sell you without it
causing any problems." So, we took that
to them and what ended up happening was
they were about to have their worldwide
conference of all their top tier
resellers in the world. By the way,
apologies for all of you that are in
consumer and don't care a bit about the
enterprise, but it's sort of an
interesting story. All these resellers,
it's just all over the world. These are
the best trained people at selling this
kind of product. And they invited us to
the conference. They let us keynote.
They let us run training sessions. And
after that, our server market took off.
So, it was kind of a lucky break um to
be able to do that.
Um
uh the the thing I wanted to close on
and I even ex I couldn't believe it. I
experienced it here today. I was walking
around, you know, having a piece of
pizza before I came inside and somebody
grabbed me and said, "Are you the
founder of VMware? Thank you for your
product. I love your product." And I
mean that hasn't happened in a few
years, so thank you. But
but anyhow, that's really what it's
about is is bringing something to market
that people absolutely love and, you
know, makes their lives better. And uh I
just thought, you know, this was my
favorite email we ever received.
Congratulations for that amazing
product. I can't believe what I see. I
think it's the best discovery after
landing on the moon. The only thing I
can't believe is why is it beta? other
software. We knew they meant Microsoft.
Isn't that stable in an N version? And
somebody else said from Germany, I can't
believe it. Your brains must be bigger
than Volkswagens. And
and then this incredible article that
the Wall Street Journal did about
bringing freedom of choice to the
desktop. It's things like that. It was
just such a wonderful fun experience uh
to do, you know, to to to bring
something so useful to people to market.
Um well, I thought there would be
questions, but I guess it's hard with
this many people. I love getting
questions. Um and I was just going to
say good luck to all of you that might
be doing a startup. I'm doing another
one, too. And each one is different and
challenging. And um you know, a lot of
people kind of pay attention. They
think, "Oh, what are you doing?" And I'm
like, "I'm just another slob trying to
do a startup." You know, we'll see. But
um good luck to you and thank you very
much.