Title: The FDE Playbook for AI Startups with Bob McGrew
Video ID: Zyw-YA0k3xo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zyw-YA0k3xo
Channel: Y Combinator
Published: 2025-09-08T14:01:02Z
Duration: PT50M43S
Views: 111504
Likes: 1934
Tags: YC, Y Combinator
Transcript Language: English (auto-generated) (en)
Auto-generated: True
Snippets: 1516

Description:
Bob McGrew helped build some of the most influential technologies of the past two decades. Bob was an early engineer at PayPal, an early executive at Palantir and was recently Chief Research Officer at OpenAI - where he led the development of ChatGPT, GPT-4 and the o1 reasoning model.

During his time at Palantir he was a pioneer of the Forward Deployed Engineer (FDE) model, a strategy that is at the heart of the AI boom today. On this episode of The Lightcone, he explains how FDEs became centra

============================================================
TRANSCRIPT
============================================================

With AI agents, there is no incumbent
product. And so that I think is why
you're seeing the FTE model taking off
because there's so much product
discovery to do. You want to drive the
contract size up. So you're doing more
and more valuable work for this customer
and also for future customers. The FD
model effectively is doing things that
don't scale at scale.
[Music]
Hello and welcome back to another
episode of the light comb. Gary wasn't
feeling great today and couldn't be
here, but we're thrilled to be joined by
Bob Mcgru. Bob was an early engineer at
PayPal, an early executive at Palanteer,
and was recently chief research officer
at OpenAI, where he led the development
of chat GBT, GPT4, and the 01 reasoning
model. Now, he's exploring the future of
AI and has an exciting new role with the
US Army that we'll get to in a bit. Bob,
thanks so much for being here. It's
>> great to be here.
>> So, Bob, I've been particularly excited
to sit down with you to talk about the
Ford deployed engineer model because
this is a topic that keeps coming up in
our lives. It is a really hot topic in
Silicon Valley right now and especially
among the AI agent companies that we've
talked about on this podcast a lot. You
were in the room when it all got started
and so you know like you're exactly the
right person to explain it. You were
actually telling me a a funny story. uh
you were at an AI conference that YC
organized a few months ago and you
expected that all the founders would
come up to you to talk to you about you
know inventing chat GPT and instead what
all of these AI startup founders wanted
to talk to you about was the Palunteer 4
deployed engineer model
>> well and it it's really true it hasn't
hasn't just been that one conference uh
as I've been advising startups this last
year I would say that a lot of them are
pretty much exclusively trying to learn
how the FD strategy works
>> yeah so there's is this intense topic a
fascination and it's super timely
because it's actually become I think the
dominant way that the AI agent startups
are organizing themselves. I was looking
earlier today and if you look at the YC
job board there's over a 100 YC startups
that are hiring for a job with the title
for deployed engineer and up from
basically zero 3 years ago. Perhaps
before we get really into it for anybody
who doesn't already understand, can you
just explain what a forward deployed
engineer is and how it's relevant today?
So a forward deployed engineer is
someone typically technical and engineer
who sits at the customer site and fills
the gap between what the product does
and what the customer needs.
>> And how does this play out in practice?
>> You'll have a product and you go to a
new customer. you you start working with
a new customer and you the the problem
that they want you to solve is not a
problem that you've ever solved before
but you believe that it's one that with
a little bit of work maybe a lot of work
you can solve for this particular
customer and you'd be making a huge
impact for them you'd be delivering an
outcome to them that would be extremely
valuable for them so you take the
product that you have and the FTE with
help from the product team figures out
how to deliver that outcome how to build
that use case how to you deliver the
piece of software that you've built in a
way that actually works for the
customer.
>> To go all the way back to the beginning,
you were there at Palunteer when this
whole model that is now like exploding
in Silicon Valley was invented. Can you
talk about how it all got started?
>> The interesting way to think about the
beginning of Palunteer is that uh when
we got started, the focus of our company
was to build software for the
intelligence community, specifically
software for spies. And so one of the
challenges in building software for
spies is that I don't know any spies.
You probably don't know any spies
either.
>> Nope.
>> And uh if you happen to find a spy and
you go and ask them, "So, what is it
exactly that you do?"
>> Um they're not usually going to tell
you.
>> And so um we had to take an approach
that was sort of very unusual at the
time, but effectively we started by
building a demo and we took that demo to
potential customers in the intelligence
community. And uh you know Stefan Cohen
very famously did this, one of the
founders of Palunteer. And he showed
them the demo and he said you know well
what do you what do you think? And they
said well this is terrible. This isn't
related to what we do at all. And he
said oh well how would you like it to be
different? And then you know they would
say oh well could you make this change
and this change? He's like sitting there
writing all of this down. So far this
story feels very much like you would the
standard advice you would give to
founders today, right? that you have to
go you have to make something people
want. You have to get out of the
building. You have to go talk to
customers. I think we were we were doing
this back in the in like the mid 2000s.
And so, you know, there's a little bit
of that meme where like I spent years
mastering this technique and Paul Graham
just tweeted it out for everybody. Mhm.
>> But the thing that changes uh and that
really causes the FD strategy is that
what you expect and the the standard
thing that you expect is that you spend
a lot of time early on, you know, doing
things that don't scale, going out and
visiting customers, getting very close
to the customers and then you discover
product market fit. And once you
discover product market fit, you know,
if you and this is class, you know, if
you read Crossing the Chasm or any of
these books, once you discover product
market fit, you do something entirely
different. So, you know, instead of
going, you know, staying deep with the
customers, doing as much as you can to
really understand the customer, instead
you want to embrace distance from your
customer and all you want to focus on is
scaling. How do you sell more? How do
you treat all customers exactly the
same? And you know, I I I think I want
to say that if you're in a business
where this is working for you, that's
great. Don't do the FDU strategy. You
have been given an amazing gift. Uh if
you have the opportunity to just scale,
treat all the customers the same, go
ahead and do that. Um but it didn't work
for us and I think this is where uh Sham
Sankar who's very early employee you
know now I think the president and CTO
of Palunteer he really invented the FDA
strategy and the the basic thing we
found was that the customers that we had
the product that they needed was
slightly different at every place and so
we moved from one customer building a
product for them we went to the next
customer we saw they had something was
slightly different And instead of sort
of building two products or building the
exact right feature for each of them at
each at each site, we built something
that was more a platform than a product
that had the a lot of a lot of ability
to be customized at each site. So when
you do that, well, okay, you need to
bring someone to the site to understand
what the users are are doing and you
know, build customization and
historically that's been understood as
services, right? So that's something you
want to minimize. You don't want to be
doing a lot of work per customer in
this, you know, product market fit. And
what Shawn realized was that you can
actually flip this around and make it
valuable. So what he realized we needed
was for the FTEEs to act as product
discovery. So they would go to the site,
they would take the product as it was
and they would fill the gap between what
the product did and what the users
needed. So you know the FD goes and
builds like a a gravel road to where the
product needs to go. And then the role
of my team of the the product and
engineering team was to look at that and
basically figure out how that should
generalize to the next five customers or
the next 10 customers and then turn that
you know gravel road into like a paved
superighway.
>> I feel like sales is product discovery
is a concept that's not new. It was
certainly around before Palanteer but
typically the view used to be like you
had your sales people that went out and
did like the sales and talked to the
customers and they came back and
reported to the engineers. But it seems
like at Palunteer it was like the
engineers were doing that work. Was that
like a conscious decision or how did
that come about? Especially when you're
selling into like the government and
defense like you would imagine the
natural inclination is to go hire some
like experienced salesperson who's got a
history of selling into the government
and
>> some like Don Draper like who wears a
suit and worked in the DoD for 20 years
and like takes generals out to steak
dinners and things like that. And that's
actually not what you guys did, right?
Well, I mean, there's two angles. This
one is, uh, we talked to a lot of those
people early on and they said, "Why the
hell would I work with a Silicon Valley
company when I could work with, you
know, a big five defense prime?" Uh, and
then even when we talked to people who,
you know, seemed like they might be
successful in this role, it was just
very clear to us that they wouldn't mesh
with our culture and they wouldn't
actually be successful. And when we
tried doing something like this, it
almost never worked. And so, what we
found was very different. And and I
think the difference between salesled
product discovery and FDLE product
discovery is that salesled product
discovery you're talking to people from
the outside. And again, this is
important very early on, but it's not as
effective as the FDLE product discovery
where you're solving these problems from
the inside. So, you know, the scope of a
of a traditional implementation might be
you start with something that's pretty
close to what the product does, but you
want to be solving one of the key
problems that leadership has identified.
If you're not solving one of the top
five priorities for the CEO, it's
probably not going to work. They
probably won't have the energy to
persist through the much more
challenging route of getting effectively
a new piece of the product built in a
way that worked for them. Then once
you've solved that first problem, then
the FTEES can, you know, identify other
key problems in the enterprise,
sometimes much more valuable problems
than the ones that you were first
targeting that maybe it's not obvious
that Palunteer could have solved those
problems or that your company could
solve those problems, but once you're
there, you can see through product
insight that you can actually do this.
And then you go and solve those
problems. And so it switches from, you
know, how do I sell the same thing to
each customer to how do I land and
expand?
>> Bob, can you lay out sort of exactly how
the FDU bottle works at Palunteer? Like
if you were giving people almost like an
an instruction manual like like here's
how we did it.
>> Yeah. So I think a starting point is to
think about how the team was structured.
Um, and of course there's many different
iterations, but I think this is this is
the the key thing that remains constant
is that the two key roles are those of
what we call the echo team and the delta
team. The echo team were embedded
analysts. So they would go to the
customer site, they would speak to the
users, they would uh try to figure out
what demo or what use case uh really
made sense for the users at this site.
What was the key problem that could be
solved? And they would also be the
account managers. So they would also be
the people managing the relationships at
the customer site. And the delta team uh
the deployed engineers were effectively
software engineers typically very good
at writing code extremely quickly eating
a lot of pain as we put it.
>> And they would be the ones who sort of
took those ideas and brought them into
the real world and built a solution, a
prototype, but something that could
actually work. and then deploy that uh
for the customer. And all of this would
come in a very short period of time. So,
you know, you go in with an idea for
what you're going to work on. You set
up, you know, a few months in that
you're going to, you know, have a
presentation with leadership to show
them your progress. And then if that
presentation goes well, then you're
going to actually deploy and go, you
know, organizationwide. The interesting
thing about these two roles is very
different kinds of people and profile.
How would you even go about finding the
right person to be in these roles?
Because it's not just a regular engineer
that could fit FD. They needed to have
more of that talking to users or the
echo team also have to be more
technical. It wasn't just an account
manager. How do you Palanteer build this
early team?
>> Yeah. So the echo team, you know, a
classic profile for someone to join your
echo team would be someone from the
domain you're working in. So, you know,
possibly a former army officer or
someone who worked deeply in healthcare.
So, they have deep domain knowledge, but
and this is really important, they need
to be rebels
>> or Sean would probably call them
heretics. They need to be someone who
understands how things are done right
now and recognizes that it's
insufficient, that it doesn't work.
Because if if their perspective is, you
know, they come from this world, it's
great, then they're never going to be
able to figure out the step function
change that the new software has to be
able to make because if you can't make
some sort of, you know, 3x or 10x change
within that organization, then, you
know, there was no reason to go through
all the effort of doing this. Um, you
might as well have sold some sort of
like very simple piece of software. So
that's that's the key profile for the
echo. And then for your deltas, um, you
want someone who's really good at
prototyping. So the wrong profile for a
delta would be someone who's a
craftsman, who really loves, you know,
making sure the abstractions are exactly
right, that, you know, they're building
software that's going to be maintainable
for, you know, a dozen years, right?
Because that's not the role. That's not
the job. And what you want is someone
who can go in, you know, figure out,
write some rough and ready code.
Sometimes that code is beautiful if you
get the right person, right? But usually
not that again that's not the key
portion of the job but someone who can
who can go actually deliver that outcome
in the form of software on a timeline
and then it may be the case that the
first version they write has to be
thrown away and maybe they write a
complete second version maybe someone
else writes a second version depending
on that person but those are those are
the key sets of skills.
>> It does sound a lot like a founding
team.
>> Yes.
>> It sounds a lot like a founder. Yeah.
Would you hire former startup founders
and turn them into these roles or did it
go mostly the other way? I mean, I think
it's no coincidence that Palunteer has
spun off like an incredible number of
startups because this FD training, this
is like exactly the training to become a
startup founder, you're learning all all
the startup founder skills, right? But
did you go in the other direction too?
You know, back in the day when we were
getting this started, uh there was not a
huge supply of founders for us to pull
from. Uh I I think, you know, maybe they
maybe that's the opposite now, but but I
think it's I I think you're actually
quite right. what you're doing uh you
know in each of these new environments
at each of these customer sites is a
little bit like being a startup founder
but you're a startup founder where you
have access to some very powerful piece
of product leverage that makes your job
easier. This is I think great training
and like you said this is why you see so
many startups from Palunteer founders.
So the the common knock that you hear on
this from people who don't really know
what they're talking about is like oh
it's just consulting dressed up with
fancy marketing speak. Why is that
wrong? I think before I say I don't want
to tell you glibly why that's wrong
because I think there's actually a real
risk that it's right. Right. And I think
you know if you if you go back to 2015
and you talk to people about Palunteer
maybe you would hear two things. One
that Palanteer is evil. Um but the
second thing you hear is that it's a
consulting business that is never going
to scale. you know that it's actually
like a bad business. It's not a software
business. And we spent a lot of time
trying to understand whether that was a
correct characterization or not. From a
business model perspective, one of the
key things that you will see that you
should see is that it may be the case
that your when you go into you do a new
deployment at a customer that you're
actually losing money early on. As the
longer you're at the customer, first
thing is your product because of the
product discovery gets better suited to
what the customer does. And so you no
longer need a large team of people at
the customer site figuring out what the
customer is doing, you know, paving, you
know, writing that code. The second
thing is that you should be earning the
right, as Sean would put it, to have
access to more important problems at the
customer site. And so you should see
basically that your cost per value of
the outcome you're delivering is going
down. And so your profit margins start
off negative but then ultimately become
positive after some period of time,
maybe a year, maybe multiple years at
the customer site. And if you look at it
from that perspective, you can see that
you're actually delivering, you know,
real repeatable value.
>> I guess one fascinating piece to make
this work and drive the cost down is
really the product team.
>> Yes.
>> So how does the product team fit in and
work with uh with FDE team? I think on
the engineering side uh it actually you
know it it feels my my job on the as an
engineer was actually not so bad because
early on in the early days of Palunteer
you know we were you know doing this
founder led discovery and we were you
know building new products and later on
at the later days of Palunteer we were
still doing that we were still building
new products this felt great right um
but the roles that were really different
are um the the FD team but then also the
product management team and so um the
product that you're building instead of
being highly verticalized
And you know this is one flow that
millions of people are going to be going
through like if you're building Airbnb
right instead the role of the product
team is is really to hold the product
vision
and so you have to think when I see this
new problem that we're seeing at a
customer site what is the generalizable
version of this that applies to the next
10 customers because if you you know
there's a a classic failure mode here
where you know the FD implement
something for one customer and you say
great well that's how you should do it
and you bring it directly into the
product and it turns out if you do that
you're building something that's over
specialized for one customer and so the
part of the magic here is being able to
build the kind of product and with the
the kind of product people they can look
at that and sort of guess the correct
problem that you're solving which is
always a little bit more general than
the problem that the customer is coming
in with
>> so there was some wisdom um to figure
out which bucket it fil fit. Is this
just for this vertical or it could be
generalized? So could you give us like
an example of what that looked like in
terms of the products and verticals and
what fit in one bucket versus the other
one?
>> Yeah, I mean probably the the sort of
like most basic example here is is sort
of the invention of the Palenter
ontology itself. And so when we first
started talking about working with, you
know, the US government and specifically
working intelligence, you know, should
we have a database table for people and
a different database table for money and
a different database table for this? And
this is super obvious, I think, at this
point. If you if you go down that route
and you try to deploy to multiple
people, your your database doesn't make
any sense. And so, you know, the the
change here was say, well, we need to
pull this up to a higher level of
generalization. And instead of thinking
about specific types of objects um we
should allow that to be defined per
customer by the forward deployed
engineering team. And so that's the sort
of origin story of where Palen Palunteer
famously got its ontology.
>> So how does that work today? Is there
like a base database schema that has
common reusable objects like people and
money that then gets customized per
site?
>> Well just I mean the database scheme is
extremely general. there's just this
notion of objects, properties, media,
and links between objects. And in here,
I'm talking about Palanteer's government
uh product, um which was our first
product. But the ontology is what
encodes all of the specialized
information that's per customer. And you
know, that says, oh, well, this is, you
know, a person, this is a ship, this is
a money flow. And again, this is this is
I think really the very most basic
example, but you know, if you build
something for just one customer, then
you're going to be thinking in, you
know, the description that applies to
that customer. But instead of saying,
"Okay, well, for people we do this," you
want to be able to pull it up a level
and say, "Okay, well, there's this
common operation that we want to apply
to things that have this property." Like
people have this property, but maybe
also ships have this property, but let's
be honest, money payments do not have
this property. And so, you have to think
at a higher level of abstraction. We
didn't hire product managers for a long
time. And when it did come time for me
to hire product managers, I would
interview people who were amazing
product managers at, you know, other
companies. And I would ask them to to
think at this level of abstraction. And
they were very they couldn't really
think at this level of abstraction. They
would say, okay, well, this is the flow.
This is what it should look like for
this customer. But that that was the
wrong thing to do here. And they needed
to to pop up a level and think at the
level of like, how does this work in the
context of the ontology? How do we
change the ontology so that you know
this specialized thing works across
customers? And of course there's many
other examples that don't have anything
to do with the
>> ontology. Does that create any sort of
cultural tension at Palinger itself? It
sounds like you're describing like the
FDES are sort of these like heretics.
They like don't want to generalize. They
want to do what's best for the customer
and um build specialized solutions. But
presumably for your own internal product
team, you do actually want to hire the
people who can think at some level of
abstraction and want to build like
maintainable code that lasts for a
while. Surely that must have created
tension somewhere where there's an FDE
who's like no I don't want to use like
the like the generalizable ontology. I
want to kind of like do it this way.
Well, I mean absolutely there was there
was always a lot of tension and I and I
I I I would not frame this so much in
terms of like the skills that different
people had because it was also very you
know I think it's a lot about the
environment what people do in the
environment they're placed in. It was
also very common for FTEEs to work in
the field for a long time and then say,
"Hey, I can I can really fix these
products and then come in and do an
amazing job, you know, on the product
side and think at that level of
abstraction." But when you're at the
customer site, you were faced with one
very
>> The incentives are different versus the
skills are different.
>> The incentives are different. And so,
you know, you're solving one very
particular problem and it makes a lot of
sense to just take the simplest approach
to solve that problem. Um, and and that
is in fact what the FD should do. That's
what the gravel road looks like. And
then the paved road though, you know,
has to has to go by not just this one
customer, but like a bunch of other
customers that are further down the
road. So the paved road often looks a
little bit different. But the flip side
of this though is, you know, imagine you
said, well, clearly this FD approach is
just wrong. Like the FD is building the
wrong thing. What if the product team
just thinks really hard about what to
build and then they go build that?
They're absolutely going to build the
wrong thing. In fact, the the way that
we would often build features early on
is that, you know, first the FD team
would build something, they'd see
something at one customer, we'd bring it
back to the product team in PaloAlto and
we would say, "Okay, what's the right
generalized versions?" And that those
FDEs would participate in those
discussions,
>> right? That was incredibly important.
>> And then we'd identify several other
customers. Well, if it worked for this
customer, we think it could work for
this other customer. So let's bring the
FDS from those customers in as well and
help them design and they they can help
us design this feature so that when we
build something we know it'll work for
you know the customer it was initially
prototyped and we know it will work for
these others and then of course you know
if you're once you've built that context
where everybody can say here are three
different workflows that are subtly
different then suddenly you're not
having this argument about like well you
know we think it should be general and
we think it should be specific but
everybody is solving the same problem
and then I think that that really melds
the incentives.
>> Do you feel like it requires a lot of
organizational discipline to keep this
model from devolving into pure
consulting where the FTE teams are just
off building like whatever product the
customer needs?
>> Yes. Uh you absolutely have to focus on
this. Um and I I think one of the other
failures by the way it's even prior to
that and and more the the easier failure
to become a consulting firm. It's where
you build the product in the field that
the customers are asking for
>> rather than the one that's actually
valuable to them.
>> Because it's often the case that the
customer, right, you don't actually
customer is like a whole organization.
You don't talk to the customer. You talk
to maybe the CIO, right? Or you talk to
one sponsor, usually a couple levels
down from the CEO who you only get to
see every once in a while. And it's
often the case that they would rather
just have you solve some problem that's
easy for them to have you solve rather
than one that's really impactful and
improves the business.
>> Going back to the opening from Jared,
what's going on with all these AI
companies really now ramping up and
hiring tons of FDES? What has what had
caused them to really adopt this model
which was not the case for the previous
generation of companies with SAS? What
happened? Especially because I feel like
even as Palanteer became successful and
the FD model became more known, it was
still seen as well, you that's a one-off
thing because Palanteer is a unique
company and selling to the government.
Yeah. Like like a like a like a really
weird thing.
>> Yeah. But you wouldn't don't try this at
home
mindset, right? Like now everyone's sort
of it's become like Diana said, it's
become very common place. Has that one
has that surprised you? And then two,
like why do you think that's happened?
This was absolutely a surprise to me
that you know my first, second, and
third pieces of advice to people who are
thinking about trying an FD strategy is
like don't don't do this at home. If you
can avoid it, like it's it's probably
bad for you. Probably you're going to
end up doing services and then only if
you really try hard not to do it and
fail then well then maybe actually it's
a moat for you if it's the only thing
that can possibly work in your market.
So what's special about this market,
right? Why does the AI agents market uh
work this way? Maybe the the starting
place is why did Palunteer have to adopt
this? The Palunteer market is not one
coherent market, right? So, we were
working with national intelligence
agencies, with national law enforcement,
with the military. All of these
organizations had some similar projects,
right? But even, you know, the
difference between a counterp
proliferation workflow and a
counterterrorism workflow. one you're
trying to figure out, you know, who's
building bombs and the other one, well,
who's building nuclear bombs and who's
building IEDs and those are actually
quite different in terms of how they
work. And so there's this incredible
heterogeneity and the market, you should
really think of the market as different
segments inside each segment. You can
build something and you know the
crossing chasm story a little bit
applies. So you know you're you're
starting off you know nothing seems to
work suddenly you find product market
fit in the segment you know you can
deploy the people that are doing this
kind of workflow and then you know at
the next customer you find the same
people doing a similar workflow and you
can deploy with very little
customization but then there's a natural
limit to that and so now you want to go
tackle a different market segment and
you have to you know develop a new piece
of technology and then that can be
referenced in in other market segments.
And like like I'm sort of saying here a
segment is not the same as a customer
necessarily. Um especially in an
enterprise or a very large enterprise
like the government where a customer is
you know tens of thousands of users
potentially in that case that's where
you know the FD strategy matters because
you're doing you know it's like you're
doing things that don't scale but you're
doing it scalably over and over again
for every market segment that you enter.
Why do we see this with AI agents? I
think the other thing that's unique
about Palunteer is that we were building
a completely new type of product. The
product that the users saw well you know
they were used to basically you know
tracking doing their analysis and
tracking people in a tool that looked
like PowerPoint and they would
collaborate by sending these files back
and forth with each other. But the
product we built was tied basically
said, "Hey, when you're, you know,
drawing out that link diagram, you're
not just editing a file. You're actually
changing a database and everybody has
the same database." And so, while to the
user, it looked like an a small change
on top of the the work they were doing.
To the enterprise, to the organization
we were selling to, it was a completely
different market category. And that I
think is what's happening with AI agents
where you know this is a completely new
market category. If you are implementing
you know a standard SAS product and
you're replacing one way of paying bills
with a different way of paying bills
everybody understands what that market
is. And so you know the the segment you
know there's not all this little
segmentation. There's not a lot of
there's not the same kind of product
discovery. you can then you know make a
product that's better than the incumbent
product and scale by replacing that
product with AI agents there is no
incumbent product and so um also I would
say what it is to build AI agents is
actually probably a lot of different
things and we don't know what those are
yet we've got to figure them out
probably in five years we'll look back
we'll be like well AI agents it wasn't
even a thing at all right we were
actually doing all these different
things and so that I think is why you're
seeing the FTE model taking off because
there's so much product discovery to do
and you can only do it from inside the
enterprise.
>> Okay. How does this relate to um some of
the classic YC advice which is do things
that don't scale?
>> Well, that's the advice that you give to
an early stage founder and the FD model
effectively is doing things that don't
scale at scale.
>> YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> Since you see a lot of people trying to
apply the FTE model now to their new
startups, including a lot of people who
didn't work at Palunteer and are sort of
doing it like second or third hand, what
are ways you see people getting it wrong
or misconceptions that you'd like to
dispel? Maybe I will start by saying as
I've advised a few different startups
who are doing this. I think the startups
the most successful startups doing the
FD model have people from Palunteer
running the FD model. The startups that
are that I've talked to who are
switching to the FD model gained a lot
of benefit by bringing on someone from
Palunteer in, you know, one of the core
roles. As I said, the engineering team
is often fairly similar, you know, but
maybe, you know, continues to be fun for
a long time. uh but the actual mechanics
of how the FDS work, how you build these
accounts, how you find the outcomes,
those are those are actually quite
different from a standard software uh
firm. And so one of the the key
differences uh and and something that I
think is actually quite difficult for
people to understand is uh how you
choose a problem and then how you price
that problem. And fundamentally what
you're selling with the FD model is that
you're not selling the installation of
software. You're selling an outcome. As
Sean would say, you're selling that you
have solved a problem. The next question
then is if you've now solved a problem
that is valuing, you know, delivering
some value to the users, how do you
price that? That's a very common
question we get from all these AI
startups because
>> in the age of SAS you would do it based
on usage or subscription or seats
>> and this is completely different is
outcomes. How do you even price it? How
should all these AI founders price their
solution?
>> Yeah. And I think one of the the the
really important things that is
differentiated between the FD model and
your sort of standard SAS model is that
with the FD model with a SAS model and
you know product market fit you're going
towards you know very simple repeatable
contracts very simple repeatable pricing
that makes sense across all of your
customers and you know often you're
you're going to be quite comfortable
with small contracts because the cost
the marginal cost to deploy is very low
with the FD model you're going to get
pushed towards larger and larger
contracts. Um, like we talked about,
you're going to be growing contracts per
customer over time. The contracts
because they're complex are going to be
more flexible.
>> I think this is what the AI startups
that we work with discover on their own.
I have this company called Castle that
does uh AI voice agent for mortgage
servicing. So they work with very large
banks and the way they actually been
able to go live with large banks is
exactly that model of ramping up is the
number of successful calls that were
handling all these mortgage requests.
Then they had like stipulations when it
goes to scale it would be this much and
that and they kind of figured out on
their own and other startups as well uh
like Happy Robot is another YC company
as well doing AI voice agents for
logistics. They're working with large
companies like DHL similar thing.
There's an asymmetry here between you,
the startup, and the business that
you're selling to, which is typically
when you're selling to a large
enterprise, they don't believe they can
actually accomplish anything. And that's
because often times they've had many
large projects that have failed. They
also don't believe you can accomplish
anything, right? Because they think that
you, the startup, are just like them.
You, on the other hand, know that you
can actually execute, right? And if you
can't, well, you should go into a
different line of business anyway,
right? And so early on it makes sense
for the startup to just take on all the
risk and say we're going to just believe
in our own execution
and you know we're going to take on the
risk and you pay us if it works or you
pay us when you know we're actually able
to expand. The one place this can go
wrong is that particularly if you're
doing a something that needs to be
deployed into the enterprise uh you know
on premise
>> uh or any piece of it needs to be on
premise rather than in the cloud you do
have to fight the IT team.
>> Yeah, actually seeing that too.
>> Yeah,
>> with some of these companies
>> and more generally who needs to say yes
inside the organization you're deploying
into in order for you to succeed because
those people do not think like startups.
they are not aligned with the end user.
And so you're going to have to figure
out a way past them. And you know, this
is part of why it matters that you're
working on one of the CEO's top five
problems because you need to be able to
bring in someone from the top to say,
"Yes, give them authority to operate.
Give them, you know, the ability to use,
yes, you use this particular type of
database. They need to use a different
type of database. they you know you have
all these spec very specific
organizational things that are meant to
apply to your IT staff who are building
things in house but they don't apply to
the startup let them do what they need
to do
>> how do Palenter get that executive buy
in I think this is sort of what
happening with all these AI startups
that taking off and going from zero to
seven eight figures in revenue within a
year they figure out the executive buyin
but it's all very haphazard I would say
from all the stories I know of.
>> That's how it felt early on, too.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Um, it's a discipline. It's a
skill. You know, you need really amazing
leadership on the FDA team to be able to
have that kind of discipline and, you
know, to share what works, you know, and
just get the practice of doing it at one
customer. I mean, I think it's not
surpris.
That's that's why, you know, the c the
companies I've seen that have done this
the best have sort of pulled that from
people who've done it before. Um, but it
can be learned. We learned it.
>> Jared point out earlier that the I think
this the palenteer forward deployed
engineer model is not that different to
sort of like classic YC advice around
doing things that don't scale. Um, we
have this concept of like the Collison
install, which is essentially we boil it
down to don't wait for people to turn up
to your website, like go to them and get
them to like install the software
>> and like physically go to them, like go
to their office and like sit next to
them.
>> And I feel like um it's always been a
great starting strategy, but most
startups aren't getting big contracts
off the bat. So actually the the reason
they have to stop doing sort of like
this sort of manual hight touch process
is you just can't get the growth rates
to sustain without at some point having
a product that scales. And it's kind of
like what we were talking about earlier
like at some point you hopefully you
build a product that's so good that
people can figure it out themselves and
then all of your problems are just
scaling it. With AI what's different is
because these contracts are so big now
you can actually go quite far by doing
like the hightouch thing. And maybe
something you could help us out with
actually is like probably a common
office hour question I get is like how
far can I keep pushing this? And my
advice is largely like well like it's
okay to be doing custom work per
customer. You just want to get less
custom per every customer. Maybe you
could give like more specific like
higher resolution advice. It's like how
do you know if it's okay to like keep
adding new customers in this sort of
like hightouch like I'm doing lots of
custom work way versus oh no actually I
need to be like abstracting out um and
building like an actual product here.
Yeah. And I and I think this this is
actually really encapsulates the the key
difference between you know the the
product market fit strategy and the FD
strategy. In the product market fit
strategy you want to be doing less work
for every customer. You want to be
driving down costs. You want to keep the
contract size the same. Yep. In the FDA
strategy, you want to drive the contract
size up. So, you're doing more and more
valuable work for this customer and also
for future customers. And because you're
doing more valuable work, it's okay. You
can leave the amount of customization
you do per customer the same.
>> So, the KPI or the internal metric is
like contract size, not necessarily like
how much custom work they're doing per
customer.
>> There's two useful things here. So, one,
the thing you can measure, yes, contract
size. Um, I would even be a little bit
more general than that and say the value
of the outcome you're delivering
>> because that's that's actually the true
thing, you know, and do you yet have the
muscle in order to be able to monetize
that and price that and capture that?
Maybe not. But if you're able to deliver
more and more valuable outcomes to the
customer, then you know you're you're
doing something right. The second piece
that we haven't we didn't talk about yet
is uh the value of the product. And so
the other thing you want to measure is
are you getting more and more product
leverage against that outcome. This is
all extremely counterintuitive when
you're in it. It's very hard if you're
an FTE or if you're leading an FTE team.
There's a lot of things you have to do
that that seem very counterintuitive.
You have to, you know, build for the
customer things they're not asking for
but that they actually want. On the
product side, you often think to
yourself, how do I make a product that's
just really easy for every customer to
use? It's very easy. And and look, I I I
struggled with this myself quite a bit
leading product early on like you want
to focus on on the user experience and
you have to do that, but you also have
to remember your other key customer is
the FTE. Your product should be, you
know, ultimately delivering a good thing
to the user after FTE customization, but
it should be delivering leverage to the
FTE who's delivering that outcome at the
customer site. And that that amount of
product leverage should be going up over
time. like they should be able to use
your product to deliver more value to
the customer without them having to go
and like pull in three more engineers in
order to do it.
>> That's right. If you know the first
customer you deploy at takes a lot of
work. If you want to then go sell that
same outcome to a different customer,
then that should be a lot easier at the
second customer and it should get easier
still as you go customer by customer.
But then if you if you really get it to
work, remember that you're building a
platform. So you're doing more than
just, you know, a stack of vertical use
cases on top of each other. If you've
correctly abstracted away what the core
concept is that you're really building,
then you should also have an easier
time. You should have more product
leverage even when you're not doing that
use case, when you're doing something
that's sort of similar. Or you will find
that your FTEEs, if it's a really if
it's really good, you'll find your FDES
can figure out some new way to use that
technique you built to solve something
completely different. There's almost
like an internal market dynamic going on
where like if you've built it really
well then the FD should like choose to
use it and you should see demand from
the FD to use your sort of like
abstracted product versus just like
hacking a one-off solution themselves.
>> Yes. Um although I will just note this
is a very painful process for everyone
involved. Uh I probably can't use the
word pain often enough uh in the FDE.
You know there are many times where I
built something I thought it was amazing
and I thought it was beautiful. Not not
there yet, right? But it would it really
would help the FTEES as soon if they
just had the the ability to see it. And
I'd be like, "Please use my product."
They'd be like, "No, it's just this is
way more work. It's like not helpful."
And I will say, uh, let's be honest,
most of the time I was probably wrong
and I was building the wrong product for
them. And, you know, I should see that.
But sometimes also I was on the right
track, but you know, I I hadn't done
enough to make it easy for the FTEEs to
use. And so, you know, I would send, you
know, the developers out into the field
to deploy th those early solutions and
get them over the line even to the point
where the FDES could use them
profitably.
>> Are the FTEs always right in that case
or is like should the founders sometimes
be just top down and say like actually I
just want you to do that do it this way.
I
>> I mean the the answer is like yes to all
all of these things. The other thing
that comes up over and over again is
just how much the right answer here is a
matter of judgment. Um, and I think I
think going back to this question about
product vision, right? Like what is the
right product that generalizes from, you
know, this customer to the next three to
the next 10, you you very literally do
not have the the information needed to
answer that when you see that first
customer. And so it's just it it becomes
a judgment call. So in the context of
how all these FTE companies price very
differently based on outcome,
how does that fit in with now the
culture doing demos? Because there's
there's this thing in at least in SAS or
I used to get this push back from my
engineers demo driven product
development. It would be sort of looked
down upon but in this case it's
different for FDES, right?
>> One of the interesting things that
happens there is because you have to go
repeatably show this to new customers,
you're forced to give these new demos.
But but actually I think demo driven
development works really well if you
have the right kind of product. So you
know in the early days of Palunteer we
actually had one demo. It was a flow
where you're you know stopping a
terrorist plot and we started this with
you know just one of our features and
every time we integrated a new feature.
We had to think to ourselves how do I
show that this new feature is actually
helpful for the analyst who's going
through this demo who's stopping this
plot. You know when we integrated a
histogram we had to say well how do we
actually use this how does that work
with the existing features that we
already had and we went this you know we
integrated a map and we had the same
question and if you think about the
world from what am I building then you
know you're thinking about your
capabilities you might think of each of
these features individually and how to
build the best best version of these
features but when you're building a demo
you're thinking about it from the
customer's perspective and a really good
demo is something where you show it to
the customer and you are creating desire
in that customer for what you're doing.
They have to see what you're doing and
just want to reach out and grab it and
bring it into their life. And if you see
that, then you know that you've
identified a real pain for the customer.
And by doing that, that also forces you
to develop a better product because not
only are you thinking, okay, do each of
these features make sense in isolation,
but how do they work together? Um, if
I'm going to be showing this demo over
and over again, even just simple things
like moving from one feature to another,
that part of the path has to be very
straightforward. And those are those are
all the kinds of product pain points
that you would often see, but only later
after you've actually deployed to the
customer. So, what the demo does is it
is it changes the locus of what you're
thinking about from thinking about what
can I build to what is it that the
customer wants and am I am I solving
that painoint for the customer. So it
sounds like it's sort of this uh you
have to keep doing the gradient ascent
in this very very highly dimensional
multi-dimensional space and you keep
changing the variables.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I think yeah maybe maybe
that's a really key point here is that
the kind of company you have to build is
a learning company and I think everybody
wants to build a learning company but if
you're a company like Google or Meta
it's very easy not to learn because what
you're doing right now was working and
if you just keep doing it the market is
growing you know everybody wants to do
what you're doing you can you can just
sort of keep coasting on the same
strategy and it's paying off for you my
advice to people if they're thinking
about where to join a company is I tell
them to join a young company. Not
necessarily a small company,
>> right? But a young company because a
young company is still figuring things
out. It's still learning. It hasn't
succeeded yet. You know, if you're just
out of college, you want a young company
that is uh growing really fast and then
you'll be you'll see what success looks
like that positions you exactly to be a
founder of your own company later. This
is why Palenter has has birthe so many
other startups is because even as a very
large company it is still a company
where everybody all the time is learning
focused on learning and you know always
doing that same grinding motion that it
is to be a new startup because you know
yes you know new startups a lot of pain
there too right that is like probably
like the canonical part of the YC
experience is that uh it's it's not
coasting it's working really really hard
on something that you're not quite sure
if it's going to succeed obviously mean
a monster successful palunteer. They're
now a super big company, huge
organization. We heard that you're
joining another large organization, the
US Army Reserve. Maybe you could tell us
a bit about that and are there any
lessons from the Palunteer experience
you're planning to apply there?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I've recently joined
uh the US Army Reserve as part of
Detachment 2011. And so, you know, one
one thing just to get out of the way is
to say that what everything I'm talking
about here, these are my opinions. These
are not the opinions of the US Army, the
Defense Department, the US government,
but I think it's this it's been this
absolutely intense experience and it's a
really interesting story. So, we are
part of a unit that's advising the army
on technology and we are not just
civilian advisers. We are actual
officers.
>> So, you know, we took the oath. I'm a
lieutenant colonel in the US Army.
>> I heard you went through basic training,
too.
>> I I uh Yeah, we we went through the
direct commissioning course. We've been
trained by military academics uh often
at 5 in the morning because that's the
time that works for people on the east
coast and doesn't conflict with our day
jobs. We learn from officers. Uh I had
to take the army fitness test uh which
since I am not very fit uh you know was
something that I had to train for for 9
months. But it really matters because
we're not just giving advice on the
side. We have skin in the game. We are
actually part of the organization that
we're advising and the army itself the
leadership is very different from what
it felt like in the early days of
Palinger when we worked with them back
in 2005 or 2010. General uh Randy George
the chief of staff of the army secretary
of the army Driscoll um they have
articulated a plan for the
transformation of the army. They know
that the army needs to change from, you
know, the kind of from fighting the
kinds of wars we fought in Iraq and
Afghanistan to fighting the kind of wars
that are being fought today in Ukraine
or what it would look like if we face
large scale combat operations in the
Pacific. They know the army needs to
move faster. They know the army needs to
change. And we're a part of that
strategy that they're executing. As
they've brought us in, they, you know,
they have given us, they've outlined the
priorities for the army. They've given
us each an area in which we're supposed
to operate, but they've also given us
the freedom to, you know, go around,
look for problems, work directly with
the officers on the ground to solve
those problems, or if need be to
escalate that to leadership and get that
fixed. And so I think one of the things
that's that's really interesting about
it is, you know, in many ways it does
feel a lot like running the FDA
strategy, you know, on the army. We we
get to see, you know, what is the what
are the CEOs, what are the leadership's
top five priorities? Can we make
progress against those? But also in a
world where you see that there's a
disconnect between what the leadership
wants and 20 years of how things have
been implemented and it takes a long
time to change that. And so, you know,
we're helping them make that change. I'm
really eager to have the opportunity to
make a difference.
>> There's a question that we love to ask
people on on this podcast, which is what
do you think are the best opportunities
for startup founders to work on right
now? Well, you know, I think this really
goes back to exactly this question of
why is it that AI agents are pursuing
the FD strategy? And you know, if you if
you zoom out and I put on my AI research
hat uh for once in this podcast,
I think what we've seen is that that
capability improvements are actually
extremely fast. Um if you you know yes I
heard people you know after GBD5 people
feel like things are plateauing but
actually if you look at this time period
between April 2024 when the best model
you know the release of GBD40 and April
2025 and the release of 03 that's an
extremely fast rate of progress and I I
think that's just going to continue. I
think we're going to see capabilities
continue to move quickly. But what's
what's really shocking actually is that
the adoption is not anywhere near what
you would expect from the speed of these
capabilities. What the world is going to
look like over the next 5 years is that
the capabilities just race ahead and
race ahead and race ahead and somehow
the world feels increasingly benal. You
know, you're like you're in your Whimo
and you you aren't thinking, oh my god,
it's not, you know, no one's driving
this. You're like, h traffic, it's
really slow.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, just like with
the world of the FDEEs where you have,
you know, the FTE is filling the gap
between this product and what the
customers need. I think, you know, the
this is a time where there's so much
availability to fill the gap between
what the capabilities can actually do
and what the customers are able to
adopt. And in the early days of AI, if
we we sat around a table in 2018 and
talked about what it looked like when
AGI was built, people thought, oh, well,
you know, it's it's going to it's going
to maybe maybe over the weekend it's
going to come alive and it's going to
take over the world. And, you know, one
of the things that I think people missed
in that was that, you know, AI needs to
be adopted. It's something that doesn't
just happen by itself, but you need
human ingenuity and exploration and well
dealing with a lot of pain in order to
make that happen. And so I think there's
just a huge amount of opportunity out
there looking at what are the
capabilities that are there, but what
does it take to make them really
genuinely useful to people?
>> There there's an analogy that occurs to
me. This might be a little bit forced,
but it's almost like OpenAI is the home
product team and the startups are the
FTEEs out figuring out how to get
adoption of of of the like research that
Open AI is cooking up back at the home
office.
>> I I think that's not a bad analogy at
all. I think that I think that is that
is maybe the underlying truth of what's
making this whole FTE strategy exciting
again.
>> Okay, that's all we have time for here
today. Bob, thanks so much for joining
us. That was really really interesting.
And we all learned a lot and we'll see
you all here next time.
[Music]